Parliament says it is setting in motion processes to address the concerns and safety of those conducting the Eskom inquiry as well as the inviolability of the inquiry itself. In a statement‚ Parliament said it noted with “great concern” reports of threats made against several MPs and a staff member involved in the Portfolio Committee on Public Enterprises’ inquiry into governance at Eskom. It said they included ANC MP Zukiswa Rantho‚ the DA’s Natasha Mazzone and the committee’s evidence leader Advocate Ntuthuzelo Vanara. “Parliament wishes to reassure the public that it is setting in motion certain processes to‚ amongst others‚ address the concerns and safety of those conducting the inquiry and the inviolability of the inquiry itself‚” the statement read. Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly Lechesa Tsenoli said: “It is completely unacceptable to attack a member or an official of Parliament for carrying out the legitimate work of a committee of the legislature. We fully support the members and officials of all parliamentary committees who are doing the work of Parliament‚ as defined by the Constitution.” Parliament's inquiry into state capture runs the risk of becoming a “kangaroo court”, according to Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown, after it heard testimony that she was “a liar”, an “atrocious minister” and responsible for the problems in Eskom. Eskom board spokesman Khulani Qoma did not hold back as he… November 15, 2017 Former Eskom boss Brian Molefe has criticised the parliamentary inquiry into the affairs of the power utility‚ saying the process is unfair. This was because the committee leading the inquiry had failed to give him an indication as to when he would be afforded an opportunity to state his side… November 7, 2017 Communications Minister Faith Muthambi has been accused of misleading a parliamentary inquiry into the crisis at the SABC. Muthambi appeared before the inquiry on Wednesday and denied that she had ever interfered in board matters or that she bullied the board into appointing Hlaudi Motsoeneng as permanent chief operating officer… December 15, 2016