Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille faces a motion of no confidence after allegations of misconduct and possible corruption in her government. The ANC‚ the official opposition in the city council‚ said yesterday it would table the motion at Tuesday’s council meeting. The move comes after executive director in De Lille’s office Craig Kesson penned a sworn affidavit accusing the mayor of attempting to bury a report on alleged corruption in the MyCiTi bus rapid transport system. The ANC leader in the Cape metro‚ Xolani Sotashe‚ said De Lille should also face disciplinary action. “We are calling for the removal and for a vote of no confidence against the mayor to be urgently tabled in council‚” he said. The party would also call for a secret vote so members of the DA caucus in the council could vote with their conscience. Sotashe said there was a 50/50 split between De Lille’s supporters and detractors. “To us the ANC‚ it’s not about the fights within the DA. It’s about making sure that the executive accounts to the public‚” Sotashe said. The ANC motion comes as De Lille has her back to the wall after the DA placed her on special leave following a public spat with safety and security mayoral committee member JP Smith. The affidavit and other reports raise accusations and counter-accusations of misconduct between city manager Achmat Ebrahim‚ Kesson and transport and urban development authority commissioner Melissa Whitehead. On Tuesday, the council will decided whether to suspend the three. ANC leader in the City of Cape Town‚ Xolani Sotashe‚ has given mayor Patricia de Lille five days to pay back the money used for security upgrades to her private home. Sotashe said if De Lille did not comply‚ they would bring the masses to picket at the city’s head… October 6, 2017 CAPE Town mayor Patricia de Lille is going in search of the holy grail – and a ratepayers’ leader believes it can be found. De Lille said yesterday that the city council wanted to see affordable housing around the entrance to the V&A Waterfront, as part of a move to… June 22, 2016 The arrogance of power had been brought low by the will of the people in the local government election, Patricia de Lille said yesterday after being officially re-elected as mayor of the City of Cape Town. “This election has defined the beginning of a new era of our country’s history‚… August 12, 2016