The ANC Free State provincial conference will seemingly not be able to take place this weekend after the High Court in Bloemfontein ordered that the conference not be held until branch general meetings which have been declared unlawful and irregular by the court are held in a lawful manner. Twenty-nine branch general meetings have been declared unlawful and irregular. Hanno Bekker‚ attorney for the 26 ANC members who brought the case‚ said there had to be seven days’ notice given before a branch general meeting could be held. There was thus not enough time to convene these meetings before the scheduled provincial conference‚ Bekker said. This comes a day after the Free State provincial general council was held in Parys‚ where Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma was nominated as the province’s presidential candidate. The Free State provincial executive committee’s term ended in May this year. The provincial conference was recently ordered by the court to take place this coming weekend. Party’s Eastern Cape region ordered to convene elective sitting by month end The ANC in the Eastern Cape has been given until the end of the month to convene its provincial elective conference following an ultimatum from the party’s National Working Committee (NWC). The ultimatum was given to all provincial… September 7, 2017 The much-anticipated ANC Amathole and Nelson Mandela Bay metro regional conferences have been delayed once again. This was revealed by ANC provincial secretary Oscar Mabuyane following a provincial working committee (PWC) meeting on Monday. The two region’s conferences were scheduled to take place on the first and second weekends of next… January 18, 2017 Ramaphosa could benefit from ruling declaring 2015 conference unlawful While the so-called “ANC rebels” celebrated outside the Pietermaritzburg High Court following a decisive victory against their own party leadership‚ another man‚ several hundred kilometres away‚ would have been quietly smiling to himself. That man was presidential hopeful Cyril Ramaphosa‚ who… September 13, 2017