Had Allister Coetzee’s job security not been such an insecurity‚ the Springbok coach might have considered some bold selections for Saturday’s test against Wales at the Principality Stadium. The test outside the international window has already diminished both teams’ call-up powers‚ thus robbing the fixture of a true sense of occasion. Tests in early December should really be about last man standing and less about under-the-cosh coaches trying to avoid being the biggest loser. Coetzee names his team today, and has vowed to field his best available side for the occasion in the hope of leaving a lingering memory as he heads into a much-anticipated review with his employers. Should he hold onto his job, he may reflect on Saturday as an opportunity lost to build experience in his young squad. With the Principality Stadium’s roof set to be closed and a dry surface thus guaranteed‚ the coach would have just cause to be bolder in his selections. Earlier in the week, he talked up the virtues of fullback Warrick Gelant as an attacking three quarter. The Bulls player‚ who made his test debut as a substitute on the wing against Italy‚ was electrifying in the Currie Cup. He finished as the competition’s top scorer with 10 tries. He may not yet possess the all-weather game that is demanded for long tours in these parts‚ but Gelant’s sense of space and timing are qualities that are hard to ignore on any surface. Fullback Andries Coetzee has not exactly made the No 15 jersey his own‚ but the coach places huge stock in the range of the player’s left boot. Against Italy, however, Coetzee’s boot betrayed him. Should Coetzee still hold strong convictions about Andries Coetzee’s continued presence in the last line of defence‚ Gelant can also be considered on the left wing. Courtnall Skosan has featured in all 11 tests this season, but he has not done so with distinction. If Coetzee really wants to dazzle‚ Gelant on the wing and Curwin Bosch at fullback would provide edge of your seat stuff. Despite rarely meeting the demands of his position‚ Jesse Kriel has established himself as a near permanent fixture in Coetzee’s lineups. It is unlikely the coach will amend his midfield‚ especially with Francois Venter running some incisive lines since his introduction for the test in Paris. Handre Pollard’s performance against Italy last week drew many plaudits and while Ross Cronje performed well in the first half in Padua‚ the coach‚ as a former scrumhalf himself‚ will be all too aware of broadening experience in that area. It is not so much Cronje deserving to be left out‚ as Rudy Paige and Louis Schreuder standing to gain tremendously from some valuable game time. The quad injury loose head Tendai Mtawarira suffered against Italy has cast much doubt over his availability. Steven Kitshoff should, perhaps, get a start regardless. The Bok backrow will be reshaped this weekend‚ with Siya Kolisi returning to take the No 6 jersey vacated by Francois Louw‚ but the coach needs to decide who to give the responsibility of replacing Duane Vermeulen at No 8. Forwards coach Matt Proudfoot believes Uzair Cassiem is a closer fit than say‚ Dan du Preez to the Vermeulen mould‚ but in compiling a backrow their primary consideration should be to mitigate the loss of Louw. Coetzee needs to be brave in selecting squad for vital tour WITH expectations ramped up like never before, Springbok coach Allister Coetzee will have to be bold, perhaps even brave, in his first squad selection to be announced tomorrow evening. His most immediate predecessors relied heavily on experience and as… May 27, 2016 SPRINGBOK coach Allister Coetzee says it is his job to instill confidence and not to introduce an individualistic mentality in his team by constant chopping and changing. Ahead of naming his team to play in a series-deciding match against Ireland at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium tomorrow, he gave an… June 24, 2016 Allister Coetzee has been named as head coach of the Springboks for the next four years. The 52-year-old former Springbok assistant coach succeeds Heyneke Meyer. The appointment comes at a time when a number of veterans of the 2007 Rugby World Cup triumph have gone into retirement‚ including three of… April 12, 2016