Eskom is scrambling to source enough coal to feed one of the country’s major power stations after a dispute with its supplier‚ Gupta-owned Tegeta Exploration and Resources. Leaked Eskom minutes published by the amaBhungane Centre for Investigative Journalism  on Thursday revealed that Tegeta allegedly threatened to halt coal supplies unless the parastatal paid more per ton of coal. Tegeta is owned by the Guptas‚ President Jacob Zuma’s son Duduzane and Trillian founder Salim Essa. It sources coal from the Optimum Coal Mine. Eskom in turn‚ according to the minutes of a meeting last Friday‚ threatened legal action against Tegeta. Eskom spokesman Khulu Phasiwe said the power utility had “identified a risk in relation to insufficient coal at Hendrina Power Station” which supplies 2000MW of electricity. A forensic investigation into the situation is on the cards. Tegeta’s attorney Gert van der Merwe said the company was supplying coal under “strenuous conditions” and‚ if they were unable to make a profit‚ could be forced to cut supplies to the power station. amaBhungane’s story suggested that Tegeta may have been exporting coal from Optimum instead of supplying Eskom its full quota – placing the country’s electricity supply under strain. THE upfront price for coal that Eskom has paid the Gupta family-owned Tegeta Resources to supply Arnot power station is among the best local prices for coal‚ reports Business Day. Eskom admitted on Saturday that it had prepaid Tegeta to supply Arnot until September‚ in so doing‚ effectively giving Optimum… June 14, 2016 Public Enterprise Minister Lynne Brown says she will refer Eskom’s coal supply contracts and other deals dating back to a decade ago to the Special Investigating Unit (SIU). Brown said this during a meeting with Parliament’s standing committee on public accounts on Tuesday. The committee was also due to hear… May 30, 2017 Public enterprises minister Lynne Brown has been drawn into the saga around how the influential Gupta family acquired a mine that gained lucrative contracts from power utility Eskom. The amaBhungane Centre for Investigative Journalism reported on EWN on Thursday that Brown had misled parliament when she was asked whether Eskom had signed… May 18, 2017