Eco-friendly hybrid with pay-as-you-go top-up on the cards A maverick inventor hopes to improve the lives of people living in the rural areas through his ecofriendly hybrid idea that can provide enough energy to run a small household or business at a fraction of the usual cost. Rolf Papsdorf, 73, who has lived in Port Elizabeth for the past four months, is the chief executive of Zolair Energy Africa. He hopes to roll out his concept, called “smart villages”, to various rural areas in and around Nelson Mandela Bay. The “smart villages” have been designed using Fischer Housing containers which are low-cost housing designs. The containers are equipped with solar panels, a digitalised energy reader to monitor usage, two recycled batteries and a 12-pack zinc-air fuel cell set. The zinc-air fuel cell is designed to store energy and is able to run small appliances or two big appliances such as a fridge and television. The containers will be powered by the two recycled batteries and 12-pack zinc-air fuel cell set and topped up by purchasing energy. People would be able to buy the energy from a service provider, who has yet to be signed up. “We want to create an environment where people can sustain themselves,” Papsdorf said. He said the smart villages were perfect for small businesses or households. “I had to find out what people could afford and what they most needed in their homes. “What we found was that most people wanted a fridge and a TV. “We want to ensure we provide lifestyle improvement. “We basically learnt from Vodacom with their Pay-As-You-Go initiative.” “You would be able to buy energy in watt hours, which is more fair.” Papsdorf said his company was working with Nelson Mandela University to develop an application that could be linked to a household-specific sim card. Much like buying airtime for a cellphone, users would be able to purchase watts via the app. The hybrid system, which includes solar panels, a control system and basic energy usage, can be leased for R300 a month and a R200 deposit. “It can provide non-grid energy to each customer,” he said. Propella senior industrial advisor Grant Minnie said energy remained a fundamental catalyst in improving the quality of life of communities. “What is particularly exciting about these low-cost, zinc-air fuel cells is the intent to empower people living in the peri-urban and rural areas who have no access to electricity,” he said. When power goes out in the rural town of Soroti in eastern Uganda, shop manager Hussein Samsudin can only hope it will not go on so long that it spoils his fresh goods. Another shop owner, Richard Otekat, 37, has to pay a neighbour hourly to use his generator during… December 23, 2016 Walmer Township and Missionvale may be kilometres apart, but the Nelson Mandela Bay residents living there share a common reality – the continued use of bucket toilets. Last week, the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality extended its deadline to eradicate the bucket system in the city by six months – leaving mayor… November 29, 2017 They have had their numbers' contest, brought out their supporters and made all the right noises. With three months' to go before the local government elections , we look at what the ANC, the DA, the EFF and the UDM have promised to get your vote ANC focus on the… May 2, 2016