Three fabulous foodies from the Eastern Cape are flying the province’s flag high as semifinalists in popular reality television show My Kitchen Rules. Mother-and-daughter pair Elani Lombard and Louzel Steyn, from Cradock, will go head to head with the semifinalist team of Jamandi and Machiel Bekker from Bloemfontein on December 3. Steyn, a travel journalist who also has a home in Cape Town, said she and her mother would go into the semifinal with confidence and were determined to do the Eastern Cape proud. “The show has definitely given us a chance to become closer as we shared a flat in Joburg for a month. “Being flatmates with my mother was quite fun. She’s a pretty good flatmate if anyone is looking,” Steyn joked. She said the pair had not yet discussed what they would do with the prize money should they win. They wanted the competition to be more about the experience than about money, Steyn said. Steyn and Lombard run the True Living farmstall in Stockenstroom Street in Cradock. Charnell Young, 37, who was born in Port Elizabeth, and her Capetonian friend Kerry Sonn, 35, were the first team to qualify for the show’s finale when they won their semifinal round last week. Young said: “Kerry and I met through our husbands who were friends before, and we decided to enter the competition together because we were both quite bored with our careers. We wanted to try something different.” Young was born in Port Elizabeth but grew up in East London before settling in Johannesburg. Now both based in Johannesburg, Young and Sonn have been friends for five years and said this was the first of many competitions they planned to take part in together. Young works as a creative director for an agency and Sonn left her job as an accounts manager just before starting on the show. Sonn said: “The show has been a lot of fun, yet challenging, and we’ve learnt a lot about ourselves and each other. “The most challenging thing has been the time constraints. “We’re doing things we would normally do in the comfort of our own homes with a glass of wine, but now with the clock ticking and people watching you on TV.” The teams are competing for a cash prize of R1-million. Should Young and Sonn win, they plan to go on holiday overseas before coming back and opening a catering business. They also dream of having their own food and travel television show. While they have become confident about the final round, the pair said they had not expected to reach this stage of the competition. “We kind of peaked at the right time. We don’t think anybody expected us to make it this far – even the judges said they didn’t expect to see us in the semifinals,” Sonn said. The winning team will go up against Young and Sonn in the finale, to air on December 10 at 6pm on M-Net 101. Neo Bodumela A CAPE Town woman is walking the talk in her venture to raise money for charity. Charlotte Steyn is taking her idol Nelson Mandela's book title Long Walk To Freedom and turning it into a 5327km walk for nine charities. Her quest, called Hearts In Motion, is to… September 18, 2013 TV star Sipho wants to inspire EASTERN Cape domestic worker and 2014 Master Chef runner-up, Siphokazi Mdlankomo, has published her own cookbook, My Little Black Recipe Book, with the hope of inspiring her counterparts in South Africa. Mdlankomo, 41, hails from Tsolo, a small town 49km outside Mthatha. However she… March 4, 2016 THE anxious wait is over for a Port Elizabeth cooking pair who have made the final cut of Justin Bonello's homegrown television hit, Ultimate Braai Master. The Fire Feeders, previously known as the Eccentric Fire Feeders, have not only made the grade for the show, but are the only team… April 15, 2014