  Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism rolled out a new outdoor attraction for visitors to Port Elizabeth yesterday with the launch of Segway tours, run by Wild X Adventures. A Segway is a quiet, electric, selfbalancing eco-friendly scooter which gives even sedentary fun-lovers a chance to enjoy the outdoors. Wild X Adventures owner Johnnie Borrett said after only a month of running the fun activity, he saw it as an amazing opportunity, not only to enhance tourism – “but also for ourselves”. “We are willing to invest a massive amount of money and we told the municipality it would be around R5-million but it could be more,” he said at Afri-Cabz at Brookes Hill, the base from which the tours run. “There are four permanent jobs already and hopefully six or seven more in December.” The guided tours trundle along seven different routes, four along the beachfront between Kings Beach and Summerstrand, and three up Happy Valley nearby. After a 15-minute orientation, riders head off under supervision of professional instructors. Riding prices range from R300 a person, with children’s prices starting at R250. Municipal economic development, agriculture and tourism political head Andrew Whitfield said he was convinced the metro would have another bumper season after a record year for visitors last year. The municipality had jumped at the chance to smooth the way for Segway tours along the beautiful beachfront, as it tied in with the drive to make Nelson Mandela Bay one of the best value destinations not only in South Africa, but the world, Whitfield said. “You can go to the City of Cape Town for double the budget and half the time,” he said. “We want to be responsive and see more products make their home base here.” John Harvey THEY may increasingly be seen traversing parking lots at shopping malls, but one would not have expected the contraption known as the Segway to have become one of the hottest properties in Tsitsikamma tourism this holiday season. While the region is renowned for its bungee-jumping and hiking, the… December 19, 2013 Base Camp Adventures offers a range of adventurous activities THE holiday season is the perfect time to overcome your fear of heights by trying out the Base Camp Adventures experience at Pine Lodge Resort and Conference Centre on Marine Drive. Base Camp Adventures offers a range of bold activities to… December 11, 2015 Residents of Nelson Mandela Bay and tourists will soon be able to tour the city’s beaches on the back of fat-wheeled bicycles after the launch of Fat Attack beach tours at the weekend. The beach ride, which was launched in conjunction with Red Cherry Adventures, offers the visitors a chance… November 28, 2017