Biography details strange period in former Pirates player’s life The new book on Teko Modise alleges he was stalked by a cult-like secret society and that he also gave R50 000 to a “Congo king” sangoma at his lowest ebb when he was at Orlando Pirates and dreams of a move overseas were not materialising. The Curse of Teko Modise‚ written by Nikolaos Kirkins‚ has been published by Jacana Media. In two chapters dedicated to a more bizarre period in Modise’s life it is asserted that after a ritual by the “Congo king” in which ornaments began speaking‚ the former Bafana Bafana midfield general was given a live rabbit. The R50 000 he paid to the witchdoctor was then burnt before his eyes. The book describes a dark period soon after the 2010 World Cup where Modise fell out with his Pirates teammates and was missing training sessions as he turned to drink. At that time he was contacted by a woman named “Melissa” who knew intimate details about his daily life. Melissa called Modise “Every. Single. Day. For two years. “Some days‚ she would call Teko to tell him not to take a particular route when driving to training. “Some days she would call him to advise against purchasing something and some days she would call Teko to tell him what was going on in his mind. “Every time he drove out his gate‚ he would receive a call from the same private number.” One day Modise was warned not to go to a party of friend and then Kaizer Chiefs right-back Siboniso Gaxa. “If you do‚ your car will give you problems when you wake up in the morning.” Modise went and the next morning his new BMW M3 had been “vandalised beyond recognition”. Melissa told Modise about an organisation that wanted him to join them because they “need a soccer player”. They guaranteed him a lifetime of wealth. His situation in his career was so desperate he thought about it. He followed directions to a church “in-between nothing and nowhere . . . There were a number of people there‚ all of them white people and dressed in black”. Later, Modise was told to go to a bank and withdraw all the money from an account he thought was empty. He got to an ATM and found that R100 000 had been deposited into the account‚ but was nervous and only withdrew R1 000. Soon after the footballer had blown off Melissa and the “organisation”‚ the book says in its next chapter‚ he was contacted by a “king from Congo”. He went to the king’s expensive house in Houghton on various occasions‚ on one of which a ritual was performed where “Teko did as he was told and closed his eyes”. “The chanting from the king intensified. As [it] got louder Teko realised . . . other voices were coming from the ornaments and sculptures.” The king then gave Modise a gift of a white rabbit‚ pulled from a box that had been shown to be empty. Modise paid the king R50 000‚ changed into dollars‚ that an attendant poured petrol over and burnt. Modise‚ 34‚ is winding down his career at Cape Town City. The biography also details midnight baths in a herbal concoction on the eve of games that it is asserted Modise and his teammates took part in when he played for Orlando Pirates between 2007 and 2011. “Many players were religious and these practices made them uncomfortable. However‚ at Orlando Pirates everything is performed as a team. Religious or not‚ you get in the bath.” Defender Mashamaite wins three times at footballer of the year event TEFU Mashamaite hit the pause button on what appears to be protracted negotiations over a new contract at Kaizer Chiefs to scoop the Premier Soccer League’s flagship award – the footballer of the year – at the Sandton Convention… May 18, 2015 BAFANA Bafana's preparations for their tour down under plumbed farcical depths yesterday after Mamelodi Sundowns' Teko Modise and BidVest Wits' Sthembiso Ngcobo took the unorthodox decision of personally turning down their invitations to join the travelling squad. Bafana coach Gordon Igesund was still reeling from the withdrawal of a record… May 22, 2014 WHEN Pitso Mosimane selects his Bafana lineup tomorrow for next Wednesday’s friendly against Burkina Faso, he will have to experiment more than he prefers.Four of Mosimane’s squad regulars – Macbeth Sibaya, Katlego Mphela, Kagisho Dikgacoi and Teko Modise – are inactive, so Mosimane is tipped to break his loyalty policy… February 2, 2011