President Jacob Zuma has until the end of the day to make fresh representations to the National Prosecuting Authority on why he should not face corruption charges. Following a Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) decision‚ National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams gave Zuma until November 30 to make the representations. However‚ these cannot be the same as those he made when he was first facing the charges. With two weeks to go until the ANC’s elective conference‚ where Zuma’s successor will be chosen‚ it is not clear as yet when the NPA will make the decision on whether to charge him. The prosecuting authority in the last decade has been accused of protecting Zuma. It is also not clear what the new representations will be‚ but the presidency has already indicated that Zuma will question KPMG’s forensic report into his affairs. The international auditing firm is facing a credibility crisis flowing from work it did for the Gupta family and the South African Revenue Service. The NPA has also given the DA an opportunity to make representations. Thursday is also the deadline for the Hawks to revert to the NPA on the availability of witnesses and any factors that may affect the feasibility of reinstating the matter. There was a witness list of 218. The Hawks had to find out how many of those witnesses were available. This follows a decision by the SCA to uphold a High Court in Pretoria judgment that found the 2009 decision to drop the charges against Zuma was irrational. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) has given President Jacob Zuma until November 30 to make further representations on whether or not he should be prosecuted. But Zuma’s further representations should relate only to issues not previously considered when then acting national director of public prosecutions (NDPP) Mokotedi Mpshe made his… October 21, 2017 President Jacob Zuma said on Friday he was disappointed by a ruling of the Supreme Court of Appeal‚ which has rejected his latest bid to fight off a corruption case. "The decision of the Supreme Court of Appeal today‚ whilst disappointing‚ was much anticipated‚" the presidency said in a statement.… October 13, 2017 The Supreme Court of Appeal on Friday dismissed a bid by President Jacob Zuma to appeal a previous ruling that he could face 783 corruption-related charges. Zuma and the National Prosecuting Authority had asked the court to overturn a Pretoria High Court judgment that the charges could be reinstated. However‚… October 13, 2017