Chairperson of the DA federal council James Selfe added to the tense political climate in Cape Town when he lashed out at mayor Patricia de Lille publically. In a statement on Thursday‚ Selfe rubbished as “patently nonsense” suggestions by De Lille that an inquiry into political tensions in the city by the DA was an attempt to undermine her government. He was referring to the DA’s sub-committee‚ chaired by parliamentary chief whip John Steenhuisen‚ probing tensions in the party which seemingly bubbled to the surface when De Lille and safety and security mayco member JP Smith got into a public spat. Selfe’s statement came after De Lille rubbished allegations penned by an executive director in her office‚ Craig Kesson‚ about possible misconduct and alleged corruption in the city. In her reply‚ De Lille said she had prioritised service delivery to people displaced by apartheid and had used public transport and affordable housing to champion her cause. “This has made me unpopular with a powerful minority sector. However‚ I know that I have the support of the vast majority of Capetonians to promote social justice in our city‚” wrote De Lille. Said Selfe: “Mayor De Lille has suggested in her public communications that this investigation is an attempt to undermine the DA government’s efforts to spatially integrate Cape Town’s communities. This is patently nonsense‚ as a basic reading of the documentation shows.” He said the DA’s efforts to integrate Cape Town was a pledge of the party’s 2016 election manifesto‚ and was a commitment of the entire DA “not one person alone”. “The entire DA caucus in Cape Town completely supports this goal‚” said Selfe. He said the investigation was not about factionalism in the city‚ and that people suggesting as much were deliberately muddying the waters for the investigation. “They are nothing more than purposeful misdirection‚ and should be seen as such. We call on all those who have the City and the DA’s best interests at heart to focus on supporting and co-operating with the investigation into the specific allegations of maladministration‚” said Selfe. In the statement he said the DA was following developments in the city and was determined that all substantive allegations would be investigated fully. – TimesLIVE The DA’s new Western Cape leader‚ Bonginkosi Madikizela‚ urged party members to put their differences aside in order to save South Africa. “If we don’t save South African by 2019‚ by 2024 we will not have any country left to save‚” Madikizela told the provincial DA conference in Cape Town… October 8, 2017 Western Cape Democratic Alliance leader Patricia De Lille was today endorsed by her party to run for a second term as the City of Cape Town mayor in this year's local government elections. It came as no surprise as DA federal leader Mmusi Maimane announced that the party had decided… January 25, 2016 TENSIONS are mounting in the DA as the party starts finalising its candidate lists, and some party members realise they may lose their jobs and incomes as town and metro councillors. The influence of the Freemasons and an alleged plot to sideline former members of Patricia de Lille’s Independent Democrats… March 30, 2016