Mayor Athol Trollip File picture: Ivor Markman Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip has accused his deputy, Mongameli Bobani, of conspiring with opposition parties to topple him. In a letter, written on Wednesday and sent to members of the parties which are part of the coalition agreement, Trollip said Bobani had met with opposition party members to discuss plans to form a new government. In this letter, which has been seen by The Herald, Trollip complained that Bobani had breached agreements made by coalition partners at a national level. Trollip also slated UDM leader Bantu Holomisa s insistence that Bobani be reinstated to the public health portfolio. Trollip removed Bobani as mayoral committee member for public health last month. Trollip wrote: Honourable Holomisa continues to insist that . . . Bobani be reinstated into the mayoral committee for public health. This he does despite a mounting portfolio of evidence that shows that councillor Bobani behaves in a fashion that is not compatible with that of coalition partners and the serious allegations of corruption and fraud in this directorate. Trollip said a three- member panel put in place to investigate the tensions had condemned Bobani s behaviour. Early this week, Trollip also came under fire in a strongly worded letter written by Holomisa, who accused the mayor of defying an agreement between coalition partners to reinstate Bobani. Holomisa claimed Trollip had gone back on a decision taken on May 15 to reinstate Bobani to the mayoral committee post until a full investigation had been concluded. Trollip in his letter accused Holomisa of leaking letters to the media laying bare the tensions. In response to Trollip s letter, Holomisa wrote one of his own, addressing it to DA leader Mmusi Maimane and saying it was Trollip who was not honouring the coalition agreements. He also accused the DA of being in defiance of the authority of the political parties that signed the co-governance agreement. He said Trollip also stood accused on certain matters. When asked for comment, Maimane said Bobani could not return to the health portfolio until the investigation had been completed. The panel made it clear that the actions of Mr Bobani were in breach of the coalition agreement. The panel maintained that an investigation into Mr Bobani and his dealings in the health portfolio must go ahead. That investigation is being conducted by an independent firm, Maimane said. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share