The current &#8216;7de Laan&#8217; theme song stays Despite numerous calls from viewers on social media for the return of 7 de Laan s old theme song the soapie is adamant that the current song will stay. 7de Laan s production line manager Frances Mapofa told TshisaLIVE that the current theme song was here to stay. The decision to change the show s theme song was in line with SABC 2 s plan to change its look and feel almost two years ago. The old theme song is not making a return that is definitely untrue. The current theme song composed by Joe Niemand and introduced in 2015 will remain she said. The original theme song of the Afrikaans soapie was produced by the iconic Soweto String Quartet and was a firm favourite among viewers. SABC spokesman Kaizer Kganyago also confirmed to TshisaLIVE that rumours that the original song was returning were not true. It s definitely not true that the soapie s theme song will go back to the original one he said. The decline of the country can be traced back to when they changed the 7de Laan theme song Tariq Kathrada (@tariqkathrada) May 10, 2017 @Real7deLaan please bring back this theme. The new theme song was copied from a movie I watched. I heard it during the credits #7deLaan pic.twitter.com/cdNVVWIFwh tyrone prins (@akatyroneza) May 28, 2017 7de Laan ain&#8217;t been the same eversince they changed the theme song Bra Thido (@__Touch1_) April 26, 2017 Over the past few months, the soapie has undergone major reshuffling which included changes to its time slot from 6.30 to 6pm every weekday. The show s Sunday omnibus was also removed from the lineup which left thousands of viewers disappointed. The show has heeded fans calls and have made a decision to bring back the Omnibus from July. Frances said: 7 de Laan has very loyal viewers and they were gravely upset that they could not catch up with the soapie when they missed it during the week. Bringing back the omnibus will improve the numbers I think that s why the SABC heard the fans call. The SABC 2 soapie s omnibus will return to the small screens on Sundays at 1.30pm from July. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share