The vision of the ANC became brighter when visionary leaders were elected, ANC provincial secretary Oscar Mabuyane told a group of young businesspeople in Mthatha yesterday. It cannot be business as usual, he said. You need to look for leaders who will be able to develop you. Addressing a Progressive Youth in Business (PYB) breakfast seminar at the newly opened Mayfair Hotel, Mabuyane also took a thinly veiled swipe at the premier Phumulo Masualle-led provincial government for failing to empower young people. Masualle is also the ANC s provincial chairman. He is gunning for the third term in that office, while Mabuyane, who has been secretary for two terms, has ambitions to take over as provincial chairman. Mabuyane s utterances in Mthatha came after he was told in no uncertain terms by frustrated young business owners that he and other delegates going to the party s national general congress (NGC) should ensure that a certain percentage of municipal funds was earmarked for the benefit of young people. PYB provincial chairwoman Buhle Tonise told Mabuyane that, although young businesspeople wanted to play a role in job creation, they were often hamstrung by internal turmoil in municipalities. Politicians create a situation of dependency characterised by patronage, she said. Most of our business relies on municipalities, but sometimes projects are given to someone with no qualification and no knowledge of the job. Luthando Bara, a member of the Black Business Forum, told Mabuyane that they should advocate during the ANC s NGC for 50% of government spending on goods and services to go to black business. He said the Eastern Cape spent at least R50-billion of its budget on goods and services, but only 10% of that actually went to black-owned businesses. Mabuyane said that while the province had become a construction site due to the number of road upgrade projects taking place, it was shocking that only two locally-based companies were involved. He also warned that the Eastern Cape was collapsing because many people were migrating to other cities in search of better opportunities while thousands of graduates were sitting idle at home with no jobs. Adding to that, entrepreneurs did not have space to thrive. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share