More and more girls are married off in India&#8217;s towns and cities. Picture: iStock An increasing number of underage girls in India s towns and cities are being married off, a study has revealed, challenging longheld assumptions that child marriage in the country is largely a rural phenomenon. Child marriage is illegal in India, but it is deeply rooted and accepted in society, and remains widespread in parts of the country. Data from the 2011 census shows more than five million girls were married before the legal age of 18 a marginal decrease from 2001. Yet while the number of underage brides has declined by 0.3% in rural areas since 2001, they have increased by 0.7% in urban parts, a report by the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights and the charity Young Lives said. Experts said these percentage figures appeared insignificant, but considering India had a population of 1.3 billion, this meant tens of thousands more underage girls had been married in towns and cities in the decade to 2011. What is interesting is that one didn t expect a lot of the urban areas to figure in the high-incidence districts, especially around the big metros, Renu Singh, Young Lives country director, said on Thursday. Also, it is surprising that in the 10- to 14-year age group, there are still large numbers of girls being married in urban areas. One was hoping and thinking that would not exist at all. The study the first to break down India s census data on child marriage found nearly one out of four girls in rural areas and one out of five in urban areas was married below 18. Some urban districts in states such as Uttar Pradesh in the north and Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka in the south showed a rise in the number of underage brides from 2001 to 2011, the report said. Singh said it was too early to know why incidence rates in certain towns and cities had inched higher, adding that more research was needed to understand the causes. Along with Niger, Guinea, South Sudan, Chad and Burkina Faso, India is among the top 10 countries with the highest prevalence rates of child marriage, despite moves to empower girls and women and toughen penalties against the crime. Poverty, weak enforcement of laws, patriarchal social norms and concerns about family honour are factors contributing to early marriage. But the practice violates child rights cutting across every part of women s development and creating a vicious cycle of malnutrition, poor health and ignorance, experts say. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share