PE cyclist Wayne Bolton will embark on another journey to save the rhinos. Picture: Riaan Marais A Port Elizabeth man is aiming to pedal his bicycle 2 000km, across two provinces, on another mission to raise awareness about rhino poaching in South Africa. This weekend Wayne Bolton, 51, will leave Nelson Mandela Bay on his second long-distance cycle, completing the circle he started in November 2015, when he first embarked on his conservation campaign. To many people it might seem silly to ride your bike across South Africa for rhinos, Bolton said at the official launch of the OLLI Frontier Rhino Ride at the Boardwalk last night. But you have to do something and this is my way of joining the fight against rhino poaching. Bolton and his family started the One Land Love It (OLLI) campaign in 2015 when he cycled more than 6 000km from the Kruger National Park, along the South African border, down the West Coast, making his way along the Garden Route to the Addo Elephant National Park. Along the way he visited a number of national parks, raising awareness and generating funds for the Care for Wild Africa rhino orphanage, the largest facility of its kind in the world. This time, Bolton will be visiting private game reserves after leaving from the Kragga Kamma Game Reserve in Port Elizabeth. He will make his way east through the Transkei into KwaZulu-Natal, before ending his journey on August 2 at the Mozambique border. He will be followed closely by the life-size rhino model, aptly named OLLI. Bolton hopes their campaign will also gain some traction online through social media and the use of the hashtag #JointCustody, symbolising everyone s involvement in protecting rhinos. The scary truth is that poachers have shifted their focus away from places like the Kruger Park, targeting more private reserves across the entire country, he said. Private game reserves house 25% of our rhinos, and it is crucial to involve them in our campaign and to show them our support for the work they are doing. We will be spending time with rangers who sometimes put their lives at risk to protect rhinos, and speak to reserve managers about their efforts to curb poaching, Bolton said. One of the expedition s main sponsors is Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism, and at last night s event marketing manager Titus Chuene said they were proud to be associated with the cause. When Wayne came to us with the first expedition, I thought to myself this man is crazy, Chuene said. But later I realised all those not doing something to raise awareness about rhino poaching are the crazy ones. So when Wayne came to us for a second time, it was a no-brainer. Also speaking at the event, Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip pledged his support for OLLI. I was supposed to ride out of Port Elizabeth with Wayne, but, unfortunately, I have a matter to attend to in Limpopo. But our city is committed to contributing to this cause, Trollip said. He said the statistics, with 1 300 rhinos killed last year, should serve as a call to action to the public to contribute to the fight against poaching and the rhino horn trade. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share