After being on the receiving end of a big hiding the last time they played in Buenos Aires, the Southern Kings are desperate to turn the tables on the Jaguares on Saturday. Kings head coach Deon Davids says if his team want to silence the intimidating Estadio Jose Amalfitani Stadium crowd, they need good quality ball and accurate execution. Last year, the Kings were on the receiving end of a 73-27 Super Rugby thrashing, and Davids wants a better outcome this time. I just think we need to ensure we get quality ball and be much more accurate in our execution, Davids said. The Kings must dominate the advantage line when we carry. Then, when we are defending, have much more stopping power to keep the opposition away from the advantage line. If we can touch up those areas and build pressure with the ball, we can create opportunities. Davids said the trip to Argentina would be difficult and very tiring. When we last played at the Estadio Jose Amalfitani Stadium, it was quite strange. When you score points, there is no cheering. But when the opposition scores, there are loud cheers. You have to get used to all of those challenges. They gave us a good hiding when we were there last year, but I think we are in a better space this year, and we have more settled combinations and good systems in place. The guys have also had better game time so, obviously, things will work out better. We still know it will be a huge challenge, because the Jaguares are coming off three internationals, and we know it will be tough opposition. Asked if the Jaguares, who had many players in the Argentine team for two tests against England and a one-off international against Georgia, would be jaded, Davids said: It might be a possibility, but an international side with senior players know how to handle these situations. I still feel it will be a tough game. People say we have rested and recovered, which is a good thing. But it can also count against us in terms of the rhythm and continuity that we might not have. However, I am positive that we can put things together. Davids said the team had regrouped well after the monthlong international window. The guys have slotted in well and there is a lot of positive energy. We have done some good stuff this year and we just want to build on that in the last three games. The Kings want to enjoy themselves and play positive rugby. We also want to ensure that we make the franchise and the people proud of the Kings, Davids said. I think the guys enjoy being together, and I could see they have missed one another. If we can have that same camaraderie on our tour of sticking together and enjoying ourselves, we can look forward to a good game. Meanwhile, the EP Kings have named their team to face Griquas in the quarterfinals of the SuperSport Rugby Challenge in Kimberley on Saturday. The EP team (Nos 1 to 22): Xandre Vos, Tango Balekile, Roche van Zyl, Sintu Manjezi, Cameron Lindsay, Brandon Brown, Stefan Willemse, Lusanda Badiyana (capt), Ricky Schroeder, Pieter-Steyn de Wet, Sonwabo Majola, Waylon Murray, Stokkies Hanekom, Neil Maritz, Keanu Vers. Replacements: Robin Stevens, Lupumlo Mguca, Kevin Kaba, SF Nieuwoudt, Rouche Nel, Garrick Mattheus, Simon Bolze. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share