Thousands of computer users across the globe scrambled to reboot yesterday after a wave of ransomware cyber attacks spread from Ukraine and Russia through Europe to the United States. The virus, which demanded a payment worth $300 (R3 900) as it locked up files at companies and government agencies, including the Chernobyl nuclear site, appeared similar to the WannaCry ransomware that swept the world last month, hitting a total of about 200 000 users in more than 150 countries. But the new attack appeared much smaller in scale, with global cyber security firm Kaspersky Lab estimating the number of victims at 2 000. There was no immediate indication of who was responsible. The government of Ukraine, where the attacks were first reported, said the attack had been halted, but key organisations were still reporting problems. The large-scale cyber attack on corporate and government networks that happened on June 27 has been stopped, the government said. The situation is under the complete control of cyber security experts and they are now working on recovering lost data. Despite the assurances, employees at the Chernobyl nuclear site were continuing to use hand-held Geiger counters to measure radiation levels after the monitoring system was shut down by the hack. Online arrivals and departures information for Kiev s main Boryspil airport also remained down, but its director said the hub was otherwise fully operational. Meanwhile, systems at major lender Oschadbank still appeared crippled, while a delivery service and energy supplier said it was also facing some difficulties. The attacks started on Tuesday at about 2pm in Kiev and quickly spread to about 80 companies in Ukraine and Russia, cyber security company Group IB said. In Russia, major companies, including oil giant Rosneft, said they had suffered cyber attacks at roughly the same time. Later, multinationals in Western Europe and the United States reported that they, too, had been hit by the virus. Among the companies reporting problems were global shipping firm Maersk, British advertising giant WPP, French industrial group Saint-Gobain and US pharmaceutical group Merck. India s government said yesterday operations at a terminal at the country s largest container port in Mumbai, run by Maersk, were disrupted. Security specialists said the cyber attacks on Tuesday exploited an already patched vulnerability in Windows software and appeared to have focused on Ukraine as a primary target. The malware that, once in a computer, locked away data from users who were then told to pay, bore a resemblance to the recent WannaCry attack. US software titan Microsoft also called the latest virus ransomware. Our initial analysis found that the ransomware uses multiple techniques to spread, including one which was addressed by a security update previously provided for all platforms from Windows XP to Windows 10 (MS17-010), a Microsoft spokesman said. After the WannaCry scourge last month, Microsoft urged users to protect machines with the MS17-010 patch. The flaw and the means to exploit it had previously been disclosed in pirated documents about cyber weapons at the US National Security Agency. So far, there was no clear indication of who was behind the attack. Some experts said it looked likely to be a criminal scam, while Ukraine suggested that its archrival, Russia, could have been behind the attack. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share