There are several drop-off points in and around Nelson Mandela Bay and the Garden Route for donations to assist victims of the fires. Nelson Mandela Bay firefighters welcomed donations of soup, water, sandwiches, eye drops, energy bars, refreshments and mattresses at the weekend. However, although over the weekend staff were grateful for any and all donations for the firefighters, it was not clear if the same items would be needed today as the fires were brought under control. Instead, please rather take donations to the Disaster Management headquarters at the main fire station in Walmer Boulevard in South End or take donations to any of the places listed below. Although the list below is a guide, it is not exhaustive. PORT ELIZABETH The Courier Guy Port Elizabeth at the Old Showgrounds, Martin Street, North End, (041) 408-6832; in Grahamstown, on the corner of High and Somerset Streets, (046) 622-2671 and in George at 100 Meade Street, (044) 873-0131. DHL Port Elizabeth, Jet Park in Caravelle Street, Walmer Industria, and DHL George, on the corner of Market and Merriman Street. St George s College in Park Drive. Tavcor Volkswagen in William Moffett Expressway. Schuin Villa Pharmacy in Cape Road, Newton Park. Newton Park SuperSPAR in Third Avenue, Newton Park. St Michael and All Angel s Church in Schauderville. The House of Resurrection Haven in Salsoneville PE Saddlery in Rhodes Street, Mount Pleasant (next to the post office). Kretzmarine Boating at 157 Heugh Road, Walmer, is a drop-off point for all SPCA Assisi Humansdorp and SPCA Uitenhage donations of kitten, puppy, dog and cat food and blankets. The Woods Bar Bluewater Bay, in Hillcrest Drive at the SPAR complex, also is a drop-off point for pet food and blankets. OUTSIDE PORT ELIZABETH Thornhill Community centre or hotel. KNYSNA Food, clothes and other donations may be dropped off at: The Knysna Fire Department in Waterfront Drive, Knysna and the Metelerkamps, 3 Union Street, Waterfront Drive, Knysna (opposite Knysna Fire Department). Knysna restaurant Two on Toast and gift shop Madam Botany are setting up a free shop for those who have lost their homes and prized possessions. They ask for donations of clothing, toys, homeware or anything else that you would like to send to those who have nothing , to be taken to Two on Toast, 8 Gray Street, Knysna. Further information from (044) 382-0437, and mark any donation boxes with #toastforfire. OTHERS The Gift of the Givers Foundation, the largest disaster relief organisation of African origin, is also assisting. More information on Gift of the Givers from its website http://www.giftofthegivers.org/. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share