Figure halved after deadly first decade post apartheid but still way too high The murder of South African police officers decreased more than 50% over a 10-year period but still remains high compared to countries such as the US and the UK. This is according to a survey published by the South African Institute of Race Relations (IRR), which also showed that the rate at which police officers were being murdered fell significantly over a 20-year period (1995 to 2014). This comes a month after a Port Elizabeth police officer was shot dead in Veeplaas and two months after police were ambushed in Kwazakhele. The report was released only hours after gunmen opened fire inside the Lingelethu West police station in Khayelitsha, Cape Town, early yesterday. Unions have since called on those attacking police officers to be charged with treason. IRR crime analyst Kerwin Lebone said more than twice as many police officers were murdered from 1995 to 2004 the first decade after apartheid than between 2005 and 2014. Between 1994 and 2004, 1 970 police officers were killed. The figure decreased to 945 between 2005 and 2014, or by 52%, he said. The police s primary role in the pre-1994 era was regarded as that of defending the government of the day and police were thus a legitimate target for political attacks, he said. However, there were many factors that contributed to the decrease in police murders. Police murders fell as overall levels of murder fell, private security took over the first responder role in many areas, and communities increasingly came to catch criminals and hand these over to the police. It was a concern that about 46% of the police killings occurred while officers were attending to complaints. He said this possibly indicated a sloppy attitude among officers when approaching potential crime scenes. Lebone pointed out that in the UK, fewer than four officials were killed a year, in Germany six and in France five. Even the United States reported only 50 police murders a year a modest figure in contrast, particularly given that the population of the US far exceeds South Africa s. Despite the huge drop in police murders, South Africa remains a relatively dangerous country in which to conduct police work, he said. Last month, Port Elizabeth Warrant Officer Wellbeloved Mtshawu, 49, was shot dead in his car in Veeplaas. Mtshawu, a detective at the Motherwell Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit, was following up leads in a case at the time. A month before that, constables Nceba Takayi, 43, and German Makhanya, 37, were ambushed in Ngqondela Street, Kwazakhele, where they had gone to a house to deliver a death notice. Takayi was shot in the leg in the ensuing shootout and a robbery suspect was killed. Meanwhile, SA Police Union general secretary Oscar Skommere described yesterday s attack on the Lingelethu West police station as barbaric. Three armed attackers entered and opened fire without any provocation, he said. South Africa is a highly abnormal society where even police stations are not safe. Skommere said violent attacks against police should be treated as treason. The brutal killing of the men and women in blue has reached an unacceptably high level. We call for drastic measures, otherwise members will be forced to use their own discretion to defend themselves. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share