Experienced Southern Kings prop Schalk Ferreira is looking forward to facing the Jaguares in Buenos Aires on Saturday. Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Powerhouse Kings prop keen to get back on field after long injury layoff Experiences prop Schalk Ferreira is itching to get back on the field and pack down for the Southern Kings against the Jaguares in a Super Rugby showdown in Buenos Aires on Saturday. The powerhouse front rower has been out of action since March after he sustained a bicep injury when the Kings narrowly lost to the Sharks in their fourth game of the season. After their trip to Argentina, the Kings complete their season with games against the Bulls (Pretoria) and Cheetahs (Port Elizabeth). It was difficult not being there when the Kings were winning games, although I always felt that I was still part of the squad, Ferreira said. I am so keen to get back into the team and into this environment. One thing about being on the sidelines is you can see the heart that this side shows and I want to be part of that again. Ferreira, who led the Kings for the first four games of the season, said he did not mind that during his absence flyhalf Lionel Cronje took over the captaincy. I am happy with Lionel being the captain and I have always been a team man and it has never been an ego thing for me. I actually think from Lionel s perspective, he is in the backline and being the general and reading and calling out the plays. I see myself more of a motivator and I can always do that and I back Lionel fully. The Kings leave Port Elizabeth for Argentina this morning before resuming their preparations in Buenos Aires for the match which will be played at Estadio Jose Amalfitani at 1.05am on Saturday. Kings head coach Deon Davids has named his touring squad of 25 which sees the return of Ferreira, hooker Michael Willemse and utility back Masixole Banda from injury layoffs. Davids is also pleased to have winger Yaw Penxe, who recently represented the SA U20 side at the World Rugby U20 Championships in Tbilisi, back in the squad. He also welcomed the return of South Africa A representatives Andisa Ntsila, Chris Cloete, Cronje and Makazole Mapimpi who faced the French Barbarians over the past two weeks. We are all excited at the prospect of getting back into action after the Super Rugby break, he said. The Kings have retained more or less the same squad that has been doing duty for us in our previous few matches. Davids said his side was bracing itself for a fierce contest against the Jaguares. The Kings have not played any rugby together in almost a month, but we have prepared well over the past few weeks. Some of our players have only just returned from playing international rugby with the SA A team and the SA U20 side. The touring party is: Hookers: Martin Bezuidenhout, Kurt Haupt, Michael Willemse. Props: Schalk Ferreira, Ross Geldenhuys, Chris Heiberg, Mzamo Majola, Dayan van der Westhuizen. Locks: Irne Herbst, Lubabalo Mtyanda, Wilhelm van der Sluys Loose-forwards: Thembelani Bholi, Chris Cloete, Andisa Ntsila, Tyler Paul Scrumhalves: Louis Schreuder, Stefan Ungerer Flyhalf: Lionel Cronje Centres: Berton Klaasen, Luzuko Vulindlu Wings: Makazole Mapimpi, Yaw Penxe Utility backs: Masixole Banda, Malcolm Jaer, Wandile Mjekevu. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share