Rebecca Makin-Taylor and Michelle Bellknap in &#8216;Sillage&#8217; Let s face up to the fact it is impossible to see every new show at the festival. And, while it might sound like a cop-out not to support edgy new works, mindful planning can make the difference between choosing a diamond or a lump of coal. To make it a bit easier, we ve listed Fringe theatre and comedy productions which have been such a hit in previous years that they re back for a second bite at your buck. Theatre The following plays can all brag about their Standard Bank Gold Ovation Awards. Sillage: Penelope Youngleson s play won gold for best production at the Fringe 2016 and should not be missed in 2017. Critics have raved about the script, dealing with a poignant relationship between mother and daughter (Princess Alice Hall, 1.30pm daily until July 8). Another Youngleson play, A Man and a Dog, with Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi, has also received glowing reviews (St Andrew s Hall until July 8). Whistle Stop is a two-hander love story described as pure theatrical magic (Drill Hall until July 8), while Out of Bounds sees two actors bring 27 characters to life, delving into the life of an Indian family (ends July 5). On a lighter note El Blanco is lots of fun, with powerful acting by James Cairns (daily at 4pm at Kingswood Theatre). Those with an evil sense of humour will enjoy Jemma Kahn s We Didn t Come To Hell, follow-up to The Epicene Butcher, which sadly does not make its return. Kahn and Roberto Pombo use Japanese Kamishibai techniques to tell twisted and colourful stories (10pm nightly until July 8). Theatre whirlwind Rob van Vuuren returns with his darkly subversive Dangled, loosely based on Gogol s Diary of a Madman (Masonic Black theatre daily until July 8). Children&#8217;s theatre Bringing small children to the festival? Florence and Watson and the Sugarbush Mouse with husband-and-wife team Rob van Vuuren and Danielle Bischoff returns (Kingswood Theatre at 10am daily until Saturday). Physical theatre Undermined, based on a true story set in the mining world, had great reviews for its fusion of song, dance and humour. It is also an Ovation winner (3pm daily until July 8). Falling Off The Horn is powerful and poignant, without being preachy (four more shows ending July 7). Comedy Hard-working Van Vuuren is a good choice for his shows Best of Rob van Vuuren and Life. He also directs Pay Back the Curry, which did really well in 2016 with Daniel Richards winning a Fleur du Cap award for his role in the solo comedy. Brothers Ash and Brad Searle are back with Big Boys the Third, an exuberant blend of song, dance and storytelling (daily until July 9). The Brothers Streep: Same Streep Different Day features talented (non-related!) musicians Dylan Hichens and Simon van Wyk, who are also extremely funny (Albany Club daily until July 8). Aaron McIlroy s Comedy Master Class is back by popular demand. Find Spud s dad in his one-man lunacy lecture at Kingswood Theatre on and off until July 7. Dr Stef s Sidespliltting Hypnosis with Stef Junker is a top-selling show year in and year out at the festival (two different venues until July 8). Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share