The Booysen Park clinic, which pupil Yonela Nqokoto, 18, attended shortly before her death on Monday. A health spokesman says all protocols were followed and the teenager absconded Picture: Mark West Tragedy on day pupils protest over peer s death Another school pupil has died just hours after visiting a Port Elizabeth clinic. Yonela Nqokoto, 18, died on the back of a bakkie while on her way to the Booysen Park clinic for the second time yesterday. Earlier in the day, Yonela had visited the clinic with a cough. She was examined by nurses but not given medication before being sent home at about noon, according to her mother. However, health officials say she absconded from the clinic. When her siblings saw how ill she was soon after arriving home, they insisted she return to the clinic and asked a neighbour to transport her in his bakkie. But the Zanolwazi Senior Secondary School Grade 9 pupil died on the vehicle. Her death happened just a few streets away from where Sandiswa Thunyiswa had to give birth to her son on the pavement after she was sent home by a nurse at the same clinic, who insisted she was not in labour. Meanwhile, schoolchildren protested yesterday outside a clinic in Kwazakhele where Siyabonga Jim, 20, died last week. Pupils stage a protest outside the Lunga Kobese clinic in Kwazakhele Picture: Judy de Vega TB sufferer Jim collapsed and died while walking home after he was turned away from the Lunga Kobese clinic on Thursday. There were no nurses available as they had all called in sick following an alleged verbal spat with a patient the previous day. Yonela s mother, Ntombizodwa Nqokoto, 57, said they had both visited the clinic yesterday morning, with Yonela having a cough. She had been coughing for some time and told me about coming to the clinic before, so today [yesterday] I asked her to come with me so we could find out what exactly was wrong with her. Nqokoto said Yonela wanted to leave after she was scolded by a nurse as she had not taken a green card which indicates a priority patient. I convinced her to stay until she had seen a nurse, which she did. The nurse came back to me to tell me they had done all the necessary tests and that I should bring her back on Friday, Nqokoto said. I asked her [Yonela] to stay [with me] but she insisted on leaving and she walked home. Nqokoto waited for her own consultation. In less than an hour one of my younger children came in telling me Yonela had got worse, she said. I don t understand. None of this makes sense because she seemed fine and able to walk. For the full story read The Herald, or get the complete newspaper, including comics, classifieds, crosswords and back editions in our e-Edition. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share