Planning a music tour but unsure how to fund it? Artists may apply to Concerts SA s Music Mobility Fund which will select new projects to support in July after applications close on Sunday, July 23. Since it started in 2013, the Music Mobility Fund has received more than 700 applications and supported more than 130 tours with artists such as Madala Kunene, Tu Nokwe, Andre Petersen, Wendy Oldfield, Mark Fransman and East London s golden-voiced singer Msaki. Having Concerts SA as a partner, collaborator and advisor through the Mobility Fund has been powerful and freeing, Msaki said. Every independent musician knows that hitting the road is a challenge but when you have a 10-piece band, challenge might not be the most accurate word. Concerts SA gave me the power of logistical problem solving. And since performing at Bushfire in Swaziland as part of our tour, other festivals have booked us after seeing us there. A watershed career changing opportunity, made possible by the Music Mobility Fund. Qhawekazi Giyose and Gugulethu Duma, who workshopped with legendary Eastern Cape traditional musician Madosini as part of their live performance project, were also beneficiaries. The Mobility Fund helped us actualise a project we have been conceptualising for four years, said the duo. It opened up doors for collaborations with artists and spaces we have been wanting to work with, and also motivated us to keep momentum going in our musical endeavours. The tour funding mechanism offers opportunities for professional South African musicians to undertake live music tours, giving support toward live performances, collaborations and performance-based workshops. Applications for funding are now open and tours should take place between mid-August and February 25 next year. The Fund is administered by Concerts SA, a joint South African/Norwegian project housed within the Samro Foundation. Musicians may ask for up to R30 000 for national tours, and R45 000 for projects across South African borders to SADC countries. Working with musicians, promoters, venue owners and music sector stakeholders, the project aims to build a vibrant and viable live music circuit in southern Africa. It also seeks to develop an interest in and appreciation of live music by showcasing music performances and conducting workshops at schools. More than 600 musicians have successfully toured across the nine South African provinces, as well as 10 countries in southern Africa (Botswana, Malawi, Zimbabwe, Lesotho, Swaziland, Mozambique, Tanzania, Zambia, Namibia and Madagascar), playing at in excess of 700 shows to about 50 000 people, spanning genres from jazz to indigenous music, and folk to hip-hop and kwaito. For more information, send an e-mail to concertssa@samro.org.za, fax to 086-500-7028 or by post to Concerts SA, c/o The SAMRO Foundation, 20 De Korte Street, Fourth Floor SAMRO Place, Braamfontein, Johannesburg, 2001. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share