BENNI MCCARTHY. Picture: AFP Former Bafana player could be announced as new coach today Cape Town City have called a media conference for today where they are expected to unveil former Bafana Bafana striker Benni McCarthy as their new head coach. McCarthy has been in discussions with City over the role vacated by Eric Tinkler last week and Times Media Digital understands there are just a few loose ends to tie up before his appointment is confirmed. It would be a first head coach role for the 39-yearold who has previously worked as an assistant at Belgian club Sint Truiden alongside South Africanraised Chris O Loughlin. Club owner John Comitis could not comment on the appointment yesterday, but Times Media understands that McCarthy is the heavy favourite. The latter was also unavailable. Comitis has hinted that he is looking at a coach from outside the Premier Soccer League bosses. The new coach will be of the same mind [as Tinkler] in terms of the type of players we have purchased and the way Cape Town City want to play. The coach we select will pick up the momentum we have created. With the homework I have done I believe I have possibly found a gem, he said. Comitis and McCarthy are no strangers. The former striker scored three goals in seven starts while on loan at Comitis Cape Town Spurs side in the 1996-97 PSL season where he was handed his top-flight bow, having previously been with Seven Stars in the First Division. Stars and Spurs later merged to form Ajax Cape Town but McCarthy had already moved on to Ajax Amsterdam by that time. Just last month, McCarthy was in Belfast Northern Ireland as part of his Uefa Pro License course the highest coaching qualification available in world football. He was in the running for the position of Orlando Pirates assistant coach at the start of the 2016-17 season when ironically Tinkler s contract was not renewed and Muhsin Ertugral took over but the move never came about. Cape Town-born McCarthy s lack of experience in head coaching is a gamble but he has the qualifications to back up his stellar career as a player. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share