I need to correct something which appeared in a newspaper recently regarding a supermarket manager who turned away someone who was looking for food. Every Sunday morning, after church, I collect food from one of our local supermarkets. It s an agreement I have with the owner. Then I take it to the church and give it to one of the church elders who distributes it among needy people in a local township. They are poor people who have been identified as seemingly unable to cope with life, as opposed to unwilling to cope. Other people collect on every other day of the week and also distribute to the poor. Some are churches, one is a rehabilitation centre, and there are various other people who also collect and distribute. The food is still very useable, mostly just at its sell-by date, or in broken packaging, certainly not past its use-by date. The supermarket managers are very generous and have been known to make up parcels anonymously for people who they identify are in need, or give away goods to aid charities and good causes. Many social workers have advised against giving to people in the street nowadays. Those street people are rather encouraged to seek aid from social institutions. I m a volunteer for an organisation called Vistarus. I ve often stopped and said to people who are in need or under the unbearable grip of drugs, that they should go to Vistarus for help. Unfortunately, so many of these people don t want to give up their style of street life and all that goes with it, so they turn the offer down. Most days I collect goods from kind people and take those goods to the charity I support. There are many very generous and caring people out there. It s often not always better to give things to Vistarus, Salvation Army, Cheshire Homes, Jerusalem Ministries and other dedicated organisations than to hand them to people in the streets. This especially applies to giving money. Very kind people give money to street people, but it s not the best idea. Often that money feeds their addictions, not their tummies. It s mostly better not to give them money, but to buy them food. If you really care for them, stop and talk to them, and find out their true need, then take them to some organisation that would specifically meet their need. But if your heart speaks to you that someone s in need, take him or her into the supermarket and buy something for him or her with your own money. Please share the load which the storekeeper already generously bears, behind the scenes. You probably know the Bible parable of the Good Samaritan. This is how it ends (Luke 10:33-35 in the NIV): But a Samaritan, as he travelled, came where the man was; and when he saw him, he took pity on him. He went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. Then he put the man on his own donkey, brought him to an inn and took care of him. The next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper. Look after him, he said, and when I return, I will reimburse you for any extra expense you may have. Now that is real care. God bless you and all kind people, who seek ways to help others. John Price, Summerstrand, Port Elizabeth Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share