Passionate entrepreneur Roberts proves theatre, comedy is serious business When Ranique Roberts received a request from comedian Marc Lottering that she promote his show as a student little did she know that would mean running her own production company one day. Now, 12 years lat- er, Roberts, 30, is the founder and director of Big Mouth Produc- tions an enter- tainment, events and public rela- tions company that dabbles in special effects make-up. Operating from a mobile office, Roberts has co-or- dinated and directed some of the city s comedy shows which saw sold out venues. While her company can employ numerous casual jobs during shows, Roberts employs a dynamic team of four permanent staffers. Why venture into this indutry? The entertainment industry is al-ways evolving and there is so much to learn within this broad spec- trum. The theatre of the mind is an amazing place to find your true strength. Is your business labour intensive? We get down and dirty and some- times there is no time to wear heels to look good when running. There is no time for manicures because my nails would end up broken from mounting posters or carrying around whatever. I always do more than what is expected in order to excel because I am involved in every bit of each production. Describe your target market? We target anyone and everyone who would like to attend comedy shows or live theatre pro- ductions. We target anyone and everyone who would like to attend comedy shows or live theatre productions. Describe the vision for your business? I want to keep growing and eventually open up my own comedy caf here in the Bay where you could laugh and be loud. Describe some of your biggest challenges in establishing the business. Resources and capital to consistently produce quality shows. Describe some of your rewards? I get to travel and work in the most beautiful theatre spaces. I also work with South Africa s biggest comedians and these guys trust me with their product . Name best practices that have made your business successful? Building and maintaining relationships. The power of word of mouth. Marketing to the right target group and going the extra mile! Describe three tips that would be valuable to a budding business owner? Michael Jordan once said: If nobody will help you, do it alone! There is no &#8216;I&#8217; in team, but there is 1&#8242; in WIN! What is the most rewarding aspect of having your own business? The good people I get to work with. The patrons leaving the theatre or venue happy! If someone wanted to start in your industry today what is the first thing they would need to do? Watch and attend as many comedy or theatre shows as you possibly can. Any tips you can give entrepreneurs starting out today? Find your niche, go with it, and always take the risk! Don t settle and know your worth. You are your own marketer, keep selling what you believe in, and remember, when everything seems to be going against you, remember that the airplane takes off against the wind, not with it. What were some of the biggest challenges in establishing the business? Resources. Also obtaining a permit to be able to do support marketing for short run productions to mount posters around the city. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share