Alistair Izobell will perform at the &#8216;Now That&#8217;s Music&#8217; Show Cape Town comes to the Bay this weekend when six musicians and a six-piece band from the Mother City will perform in Now That s Music at the Boardwalk. Alistair Izobell Productions and Marmalade Productions have teamed up to present the show at 8pm on Saturday, July 1, at the International Conference Centre. Izobell, Karen Kortje, Nur Abrahams, Sasha Lee Davids, Loukmaan Adams and Austin Rose are six of the best who will be sharing the stage in a two-hour show. Here is a bit more on the six stars: Alistair Izobell has been performing since childhood. He performed in David Kramer and Taliep Petersen s Kat and the Kings, and more recent successes include Kaapse Stoep Stories, Remembering the Lux, Kaapse Jol, Music Alla Kaap and writing the theme song for the Kyknet soapie Suidooster. Karin Kortje won the third season of Idols SA, and released her first album Forever and The Day in 2006, selling more than 20 000 units. In 2011, Kortje starred in a musical about her life story, This Is My Life, which ran successfully for two seasons. Some of her most memorable career highlights include performing in Australia and sharing the stage with Judy Boucher, Tamia, Sybil and on the Divas and Music Alla Kaap shows at GrandWest. She recently produced and performed in her own shows at the Baxter Theatre and GrandWest. Nur Abrahams started singing professionally at the age of six and was part of the groups Limited Edition and JAG. Abraham s recent performances have been in Remembering the Lux at the Baxter theatre and his sold-out very first solo show I Am Music. Sasha Lee Davids was the 2009 co-winner of Idols season five, alongside Jason Hartman, and also won the 2008 reality TV show Matrix season two. She also performed in her own TV reality show The House of Davids, which showcased her family s lives in the community of Atlantis. Her new single Forever Yours was released this year. Loukmaan Adams also started his musical career at the age of six and participated in the Malay Choirs, as well as Coon Carnival. As part of the group Ricardo and Friends, he performed with the likes of Stevie Wonder and Bonnie Tyler. He was cast as Broe tjie in District Six the Musical. In 1995, he was cast as Bingo in Kat &amp; The Kings, for which he received the Best Actor in a Musical and FNB Vita Award for Best Performer and Choreographer. He also received the Naledi Award for Best Choreography in Ghoema. Austin Rose is a 19-year-old singer and actor who started singing in a church Sunday school choir. He has performed and learnt from South African music stars such as Emo Adams, Jimmy Nevis, The Black Ties, Sipho Hotstix Mabuse and Sharleen Surtie- Richards. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share