Pictures of two scantily clad women hugging prisoners have gone viral Pictures of a prisoner hugging and being attended to by two scantily clad women have surfaced online. The pictures were posted by a Facebook user on Sunday along with the caption: NOW LOOK what is happening in prison&#8230;This is JHB Medium-B Prison where the department invited Porn into prison&#8230;is this allowed MARA? . Department of Correctional Services (DCS) spokesman Logan Maistry said on Monday the department was aware of the images. Maistry said that he was at the prison to ascertain the facts and would later hold a press briefing to address the issue. Comments on the post ranged between those of outrage to admiration. Facebooker Nana asked if it was a joke while Mnyepz Gp replied Why is it wrong? Why is it a joke? Why is it nonsense? Another user Benni commented: Eish! I wish get arrested i never experience this such life. People have been very vocal about what they term to be the preferential treatment of prisoners. A few months ago pictures of prisoners receiving KFC caused outrage online as well. DJ Fresh shared the post on his Twitter account commenting GUYS!! Kante tronko is nice like this??? Only this missing is #FreshBreakfast on their radio! Gauteng correctional services spokesman Ofentse Morwane told TimesLIVE that the department was aware of the event. The department is holding an urgent media briefing to explain what had transpired at 2pm on Monday. Dancers were brought to Johannesburg Medium-B prison to rehabilitate inmates last Wednesday as part of Youth Month celebrations. But to the surprise of prison authorities and the delight of inmates the women arrived wearing outfits that left little to the imagination. At Johannesburg Prison there was an internal event organised for inmates to celebrate Youth Month said Morwane. When the dancers arrived we saw that they were wearing lingerie. They had some sort of strip show for the offenders. GUYS!! Kante tronko is nice like this??? Only this missing is #FreshBreakfast on their radio! pic.twitter.com/PPZxft53VV &mdash; DJ Fresh (Big Dawg) (@DJFreshSA) June 26, 2017 &#8211; SowetanLIVE &nbsp; Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share