SuperSport United assistant coach Kaitano Tembo and Orlando Pirates coach Kjell Jonevret with the Nedbank Cup yesterday ahead of the final at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban tomorrow Picture: Gerhard Duraan / BackpagePix Pirates hoping to celebrate 80th birthday with rare trophy in tomorrow s final The Buccaneers will look to lift themselves from the desperate position they are in staring at celebrating their 80th anniversary with nothing by winning the Nedbank Cup final against SuperSport United at the Moses Mabhida Stadium tomorrow. Pirates have been a different team in the Nedbank Cup losing their timid nature to become a forceful side that fight until the end chasing that trophy that can at least partly redeem their season. Everything was in our hands in the Nedbank Cup Manyisa said. We knew that each win brought us a step closer to the final unlike in the league where not everything was in our control. Here we are today going to Durban to play in the final. That place loves us [because the last time Bucs won a trophy in 2014 was in Durban in the Nedbank] but we can t rely on the past. We have to go there and fight for this trophy. If Pirates are victorious the club will break a three-year trophy drought and Manyisa will win his first trophy as captain to add to the seven he has notched. The 28-year-old s leadership qualities have been constantly in doubt with his critics citing his silent demeanour. He tends to disappear in difficult moments, but when he shows up he shows up and becomes the club s heartbeat. Being the captain has been challenging but I am grateful I am not the only senior player here he said. We ve got guys like Happy Jele Thabo Matlaba and Mpho Makola to name just a few. We have been helping each other throughout the season, even though things didn t go our way. Putting on the armband doesn t bring much pressure because there are many leaders in the team and we fight as a collective. It just means I am the one who speaks to the referee even though I am not always speaking there because the only thing that I love doing is playing football, not talking. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share