The pace of wing Yaw Penxe will pose problems for the Jaguares defence in a Super Rugby clash in Buenos Aires on Saturday Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Zippy young wing happy to rejoin side for crunch clash with Jaguares despite uncertain future Wing Yaw Penxe has been parachuted back into the Southern Kings squad to add extra zip to their attack for a crunch showdown against the Jaguares in Buenos Aires on Saturday. The 20-year-old flew to Buenos Aires yesterday with a Kings squad who are facing an uncertain time regarding their Super Rugby future. Penxe is one of the new young stars in the Kings team who have scored 39 tries in 12 games and are determined to end on a high note in their final games against the Jaguares, Bulls and Cheetahs. With a decision on the future of the Kings only scheduled to be made next week, Penxe is unsure of what the future holds. Insiders say the Kings will be axed from Super Rugby and included in an enlarged European PRO12 tournament. We are still waiting to hear what happens to the Kings. I would love to stay here, Penxe said. I am looking to be in the team for the last three weeks here and then look where life takes me after that. After making his Super Rugby debut for the Kings, Penxe represented the Junior Springboks at the World Championships in Georgia earlier this month. The Baby Boks clinched third place and a bronze medal by beating France 37-15. I am very excited to be back at the Kings after a month. I joined them at training on Thursday and now my focus is on the final three Super Rugby games of the season, Penxe said. In three Super Rugby games for the Kings, Penxe has scored two tries and he will be keen to add to that tally in the season s final weeks. It has been a wonderful year and I am so grateful for it, Penxe said. I did not expect to play Super Rugby for the Southern Kings, but after the U19 tournament for EP, I was aiming for the Junior Boks. It was a great experience for me and it was the first time I was involved in the national set-up. I enjoyed it a lot and learnt a great deal from the coaches and also the players. I did not get as many chances as I would have liked, but that is rugby you sometimes get chances and sometimes not. All the games were tough and the rugby was of a high standard. Andisa Ntsila, Chris Cloete, Lionel Cronje and Makazole Mapimpi, who faced the French Barbarians over the past two weeks, have also been included in the Kings touring squad. Kings head coach Deon Davids named his touring squad of 25 on Monday, including the return of prop Schalk Ferreira, hooker Michael Willemse and utility back Masixole Banda after injury layoffs. We are aware that this Jaguares side is very much the team that has been on international duty for Argentina over the past few weeks in the international window, Davids said. Gaining momentum and continuity will not be an issue for them. The Kings match against the Jaguares kicks off at Estadio Jose Amalfitani at 1.15am on Saturday. The Kings are expected to name their team to face the Argentines tomorrow. The touring party is: Hookers: Martin Bezuidenhout, Kurt Haupt, Michael Willemse. Props: Schalk Ferreira, Ross Geldenhuys, Chris Heiberg, Mzamo Majola, Dayan van der Westhuizen. Locks: Irne Herbst, Lubabalo Mtyanda, Wilhelm van der Sluys Loose-forwards: Thembelani Bholi, Chris Cloete, Andisa Ntsila, Tyler Paul Scrumhalves: Louis Schreuder, Stefan Ungerer Flyhalf: Lionel Cronje Centres: Berton Klaasen, Luzuko Vulindlu Wings: Makazole Mapimpi, Yaw Penxe Utility backs: Masixole Banda, Malcolm Jaer, Wandile Mjekevu. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share