Khusta Jack, left, celebrates his 60th birthday party surrounded by his family: wife Karen, daughter Cayla-Rose and son Themba, at Nangoza Jebe Hall last weekend Picture: IINKUMBUZO PHOTOGRAPHY Anele Qaba attended Khusta Jack s 60th birthday celebrations with partner Zikhona Peter Picture: IINKUMBUZO PHOTOGRAPHY Collective Amnesia author Koleka Putuma launched her book last week at the Athenaeum in Central Picture: MO MAHASHE Lona Thomas, left, Allister Gardner and Sharne Martin attended The Big 5 Comedy Show last weekend at the Boardwalk ICC Picture: NOMAZIMA NKOSI Comedian Barry Hilton met with fans Buyelwa Gxido, left, and Nthabiseng Machesa at The Big 5 Comedy Show last Saturday at the Boardwalk ICC Picture: NOMAZIMA NKOSI Shade Flanagan, left, and Felecia Moss enjoyed the funny line-up at The Big 5 Comedy Show last Saturday held at the Boardwalk ICC Picture: NOMAZIMA NKOSI Uviwe (formerly Childline) representatives Richmal van Eeden, left, and Maliska Gravett presented a training course for cr che staff in Uitenhage on Wednesday Picture: GILLIAN McAINSH Friends from left, Limpo Sonica, Vuyolwethu Zanekile, Mtha Poni and Sihle Kwanini listen attentively to the music of Ohayv during the Alliance Fran aise Street Music Festival in Richmond Hill last Saturday Picture: IVOR MARKMAN Lisa Heunis shows off her painted face during the Alliance Fran aise Street Music Festival in Richmond Hill last Saturday Picture: IVOR MARKMAN Mandla Madwara and Bridgette Gasa celebrated Khusta Jack s 60th birthday last weekend at Nangoza Jebe Hall in New Brighton Picture: IINKUMBUZO PHOTOGRAPHY Last weekend I braved the treacherous winds for a chance at a good laugh at the Boardwalk ICC for the Big 5 Comedy Show. I truly enjoyed myself even though I almost did not get in because the ushers did not know who I was. After the Boardwalk s Siya Mfundisi saved me from the stares amid shrieks of name should be on the list I cruised into the ICC like nothing had happened. The line-up was brilliant because every comedian brought something different to the night. Proud Eastern Caper Jason Goliath was my favourite overall and former Port Elizabethan Barry Hilton, now living in Hermanus, had the best facial expressions. All he had to do was pull a face and I would be on the floor laughing. The newly crowned Sun Boardwalk Mr PE UberMaNn 2017 Jon-Paul Raper was there with finalist Joshua Minnie and looked like they were having a jolly time. I must admit Jon-Paul is really growing on me and I might just have to eat my words about how I initially felt about him winning the contest! On the other side of town, one of my minions attended Khusta Jack s 60th birthday celebrations at Nangoza Jebe Hall in New Brighton. My spy said the who s who of Port Elizabeth was there including executive mayor Athol Trollip, business woman Bridgette Gasa, who looked stunning, and Putco Mafani, who had guests in stitches when he did a Nelson Mandela impersonation. Khusta s son, Themba, showed off his guitar skills but the star of the night was definitely the birthday gent. His dance moves were unparalleled. Earlier this week I went to the Boardwalk s Bayside Pantry where they introduced their Winter Warmer Menu which included a number of curries and stews. Is it terrible to confess that I ate until I could not put anything else in my mouth? Executive chef Daya Naidoo was very attentive and took us through the scrumptious menu. My favourite was the spicy ice-cream pity I forgot its name though. Until next time darlings, ciao (or should that be chow ) for now! Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share