South African rapper Khuli Chana is making waves overseas and recently got the chance to collaborate live with former Fugees frontman Wyclef Jean. The One Source hitmaker was in Cannes France recently where he bumped into Wyclef who turned out to be a fan of Khuli s music. The rapper couldn t believe the man he grew up idolising, knew who he was. I was on my way to a Shazam talk and ran into one of my idols Wyclef of the Fugees. I was a little star-struck but what was crazy was his reaction when he saw me [it was] priceless. He actually hollered me showed me love and then he quoted one of my lines from the One Source joint: Africa s no longer riding shotgun Khuli explained in a social media post. Wyclef was in France for a talk at the 2017 Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity and insisted on taking Khuli along with him. After his talk he asked the rapper to join him on stage for a live performance. https://www.instagram.com/p/BVq3qQNgtf / He spoke about how he created the classic Fugees album The Score in his basement at 19 years old taking a break from music and running for president in Haiti. He finished his talk with a dope performance and then he asked me to join him on stage to drop a verse Khuli explained. Khuli was also a big winner at the festival s awards ceremony walking away with two silver and one gold award for his One Source music video. He said it was a sweet victory after the disappointment of walking away empty-handed at local music award ceremonies this year. I believe that God has bigger plans for me. I didn t win a Sama or Metro FM Award but I scooped a gold [award] at the Cannes Lions on a global stage out of 43000 entries that is huge! I now realise that I wasn t created to live a small life with small goals and dreams. I met some interesting creatives from all over the world and I m truly inspired by how they think. I m ready to make that transition and take over the world he said of his time at the festival. &nbsp; Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share