Pentagon chief Jim Mattis yesterday accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of making international mischief and said America s commitment to Nato remained unwavering. Speaking to students in Germany to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the Marshall Plan to rebuild WorldWar-2-ravaged Europe, he said Russia had chosen to challenge the secure and peaceful post-war order. The Russian people s leader making mischief beyond Russian borders would not restore their fortunes or rekindle their hope, he said, in an apparent reference to the Ukraine conflict and Moscow s alleged meddling in the US electoral process. Mattis s visit to Germany is his fourth to Europe since becoming US defence secretary in January. Jittery European partners have looked to him for reassurance about America s international intentions after President Donald Trump on the campaign trail repeatedly questioned long-established alliances. Matters have not improved much since Trump entered the White House, with his administration embroiled in a simmering scandal about alleged ties to Russia. Trump further stoked concerns when he visited Nato and the G7 summit in Europe last month, where he upbraided allies over their levels of military spending. Any message of reassurance his presence was intended to provide was overshadowed by images of him shoving his way to the front of a Nato summit family photo shoot in Brussels. But Mattis stressed that America and Trump should be judged by their actions. He pointed to continued US support through 2020 for Nato s Enhanced Forward Presence in the alliance s east to counter Russia. He also said Trump had requested a huge increase for the European Reassurance Initiative. Beyond any words in the newspapers, you can judge America by such actions, Mattis said. At the same event, German Defence Minister Ursula von der Leyen credited the transatlantic bond for bringing peace and stability to Europe, but also said it was time for the continent to do more to ensure its own security. As Europeans, we do want to take on more responsibility, but without ever forgetting where we have come from, she said, noting Europe needed to pool its resources as it worked towards building a greater defence union. She also spoke in favour of Germany spending 2% of GDP to meet Nato pledges. Being partners, we need to have a fair burden sharing within Nato. That means we Germans need to do more for our security, she said. Mattis also pointed to Article 5, Nato s mutual defence guarantee, calling US commitment to the measure iron-clad. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share