Homeschoolers are ready to participate as stallholders at the concert In the spirit of Youth Month, a Forest Hill children s temporary haven is hosting a fundraiser conducted by kids for kids at the Tramways Building tomorrow. The Musicfest@Tramways concert offers an enjoyable musical showcase for the whole family as pupils from six Port Elizabeth primary schools will perform in aid of the Ithemba Lam Baby Home. There is going to be wonderful music ranging from marimba to jazz bands and choirs. There will also be food and drinks on sale, housemother for the NGO Kim Fankhauser said. The concert will see performances by pupils from Summerwood, Clarendon Park, Greenwood, Erica Girls, Charlo and Woodridge College. I really appreciate that the teachers [from the schools] have taken their time to get their pupils ready. There is just great excitement surrounding the event, Fankhauser said. The Ithemba Lam Baby Home provides temporary accommodation for abandoned, orphaned, abused, neglected and HIV/Aids infected or affected children up to five years old. The home assists social workers by accommodating the children for a period of up to 90 days while they investigate their cases. Fankhauser said while they received financial assistance from the government, they relied heavily on the help of private sponsors to make the day-to-day running of the home possible. The concert will also give young entrepreneurs an opportunity to gain and showcase their skills. We approached the homeschoolers in Port Elizabeth and other children who have been doing the young entrepreneur s course with Ansulene Prinsloo of the Young Entrepreneurs Foundation (YEFoundation), to come and test their skills on the day by being the stallholders and by providing food and beverages, Fankhauser said. Since it s Youth Month, I think it is wonderful that children are willing to give up their time to support such an event, she added. This would be their first fundraiser by kids for kids . She said guests at the concert could expect a fun musical showcase for the whole family and a whole lot of food. The concert will run from 11am to 4pm at the Tramways Building. Tickets will be at the door for R40. Entry is free for children under the age of five. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share