Picture: Eugene Coetzee With its rich history, South End is one of the best-known areas of Port Elizabeth. The community was once cosmopolitan, with people of all races and religions living together in harmony. Things changed in 1948 when the National Party was voted into power and implemented its apartheid policies. With the Group Areas Act, coloured residents were moved to areas such as Gelvandale, Korsten and Chatty; Chinese people were moved to Kabega Park; Indians to Malabar; and black people to townships such as New Brighton. While exhibits in the South End Museum are a reminder of that time, today the area is once again home to people of different races, cultures and backgrounds. Odette Philips, a 39-year-old professional, rents a townhouse in a complex in the areaThe biggest drawcard for Odette was the area s security. The complex is very upmarket and small, having only eight units. Electric fencing and privacy was another plus. Also, with the nearby old age home having a hospital wing, you never experience load shedding, she says. It s a quiet area, but you re close enough to the nightlife and beach to have full access to the vibe young professionals in the city look for. It s also clean and private. Another big plus, she says, is the freedom to take walks in the evening and enjoy a jog or cycle. South End borders Humewood and has a Spar nearby for shopping convenience and several gyms. In fact, you re literally five minutes away from everything you could need: the airport, schools, the beach everything, Odette says. I would say the best feature of South End is its location. You re at the heart of everywhere. Picture: Eugene Coetzee PROPERTY PRICES The median asking price is R1,34-million for a typical property such a three-bedroom townhouse. Expect to pay rent of around R7900 to R8000 for a townhouse. There are very few houses to rent in South End, most rental properties are apartments (50%) and in complex (43%). The suburb is 31% houses, 27% flats and 42% complexes. Selling prices range from around R780000 for a flat, R1,46-million for a townhouse and R2.29-million for a house. Picture: Eugene Coetzee SCHOOLS NEARBY Victoria Park Grey Primary School Victoria Park High School St Augustine s Primary School Quest School for Autistic Learners (and hostel) Picture: Eugene Coetzee THINGS TO DO NEARBY Visit the South End Museum. Take a walk or drive to the beaches in Humewood or Summerstrand. Go for a stroll in Victoria Park. Enjoy Food Truck Friday and the Valley Market in the Baakens Valley. Picture: Eugene Coetzee DINE OUT Bridge Street Brewery: for delicious tapas and bar food. Gunston s Gastropub: for hearty meals and excellent service. Friendly Stranger: for great coffee and cafe food. The Southender Pub and Grub: for delicious home-made food. &nbsp; Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share