Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma File picture: Simphiwe Nkwali Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma s presidential bid got a boost during the party s provincial general council (PGC) at the University of Zululand in Empangeni yesterday. Dlamini-Zuma was welcomed with rapturous applause when she and Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba were introduced. But S dumo Dlamini president of alliance partner Cosatu and ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize received lacklustre applause. Cosatu said there was hatred with passion among comrades something the ANC needed to deal with. ANC Women s League provincial secretary Nonhlanhla Gabela said she hoped the PGC would strengthen its position on Dlamini-Zuma. We are ready with skills of a woman. Like the youth league, we agree that we be led by a woman . . . that is Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. ANC Youth League provincial chair Kwazi Mshengu asked delegates to look to the future. This PGC is about the future. Don t use the PGC as a platform where the death of the movement is orchestrated and the conference where it is certified. UMkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans provincial chair Themba Mavundla also called for unity saying the party was under siege and under attack. This PGC must chart the way towards the unity of the organisation there s no organisation without feuds but we must remember its historic mission. No matter how angry you are, you must not destroy the ANC Mavundla said. South African National Civic Organisation provincial secretary Richard Mkhungo whose organisation has endorsed Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa steered away from leadership issues, but wished the ANC well in its deliberations. Mshengu who is also a head of ministry at the KwaZulu-Natal department of economic development tourism and environmental affairs called for a state bank to fasttrack the implementation of radical economic transformation. President Jacob Zuma was expected to address the meeting later in the evening. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share