Several principals in Port Elizabeth welcomed a high court ruling in Johannesburg yesterday that declared it wrong for a public school to promote only one religion to the exclusion of others. The court, with a full bench comprising judges Colin Lamont Willem van der Linde and Namhla Siwendu, decided that neither a public school nor a school governing body may promote only a single religion. This came after an application was brought by non-government organisation Organisasie vir Godsdienste-Onderrig en Demokrasie (Organisation for Religious Education and Democracy) or OGOD, against six public schools which are predominantly Christian schools. OGOD also wanted an order restraining the schools from participating in an identified set of 71 instances of circumscribed conduct with a religious theme some of which are identified with the Christian faith. However the full bench refused to grant an interdict based on these 71 instances. The court held that these were matters for regulation at the school governing body level. Despite the dismissal of the interdictory relief sought by OGOD the court said it was concerned about the issue of single-faith branding or that of holding out that a public school endorsed one particular religion to the exclusion of others. Alexander Road High principal Peter Manser said although there were sensitivities surrounding religion at schools, he found the ruling to be in line with current discussions and debates. It doesn t come as a shock. All schools are beginning to enter into courageous discussions about religion at schools and look at policies and codes of conduct [including] changing of formats at official ceremonies, for example. He said his school had a non-biased approach to religion and welcomed all faiths. Sanctor High deputy principal Brian Potgieter said the Bethelsdorp school was open to all religions and welcomed all faiths. It is unconstitutional to deny access to education based on religious beliefs, he said. We welcome all faiths and agree that no school, especially public schools, should enforce only one religious view. Walmer High School principal Lunga Dyani said: It is in our constitution, something we must all embrace. It is a question of ensuring that no particular religion dominates others, which we fully support. Victoria Park High principal Michael Vermaak said the school respected and agreed with the court ruling. We respect each and every religion at our school, he said. Additional reporting TimesLIVE. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share