The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality is pinning its hopes on the extra water it will be getting from the Nooitgedacht water scheme in a month s time to temporarily assist with its water woes. The average dam levels dropped to a combined low of 35.43% this week. The latest dam figures, published by the city on Monday, paint a bleak picture of dwindling water resources at the five catchment dams. The figures are: Kouga (18.55%), Churchill (10.42%), Impofu (61.65%), Loerie (37.71%) and Groendal (52.84%). From July 31, an extra 50 megalitres of water a day will become available when the second phase of the Nooitgedacht low-level scheme is completed, according to municipal spokesman Mthubanzi Mniki. While it would not resolve the water crisis currently experienced in the Bay, it would be a mitigating factor, Mniki said yesterday. The [municipality] by no means will be out of the water-stressed situation, he warned. Last month, when the dam levels dropped below 40%, the municipality implemented Part C of the water tariffs structure. This meant consumers would effectively pay more for water regardless of how much was used. The tariffs are R14.57 for the first 0.5kl a day used, R29.46 for the next 0.3kl/d used, R58.92 for the next 0.8kl/d and more than R196.41 for any more kilolitres used in a day. Over the past two months, residents have reduced consumption, although the saving is not enough as the dam levels continue to drop every week. Mniki said: The water consumption of the NMBM has dropped over the last two months. [For] May, an average of 258ML per day [was used] and it is anticipated that the consumption for June will be 270ML per day. This is an improvement over almost a year ago, when water usage was at 307ML a day. However, to reach the Department of Water Affairs annual restriction target, consumption has to drop below 230ML a day. Mniki said the municipality was busy with a drought implementation plan that was looking at reducing the risk of running out of water. Water awareness remains the most critical element to encourage customers to use water sparingly and have a mind-shift about water-using habits, he said. The installation of water restrictors for [household] customers that are using excessive amounts of water is being rolled out. Mniki said it was not yet possible to ascertain if residents were using less water since the Part C restrictions were implemented. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share