Bluewater Bay Picture: Fredlin Adriaan There s something special about living in Bluewater Bay, says Quinton Uren, managing director, Jendamark Automation. Quinton and his family have lived in Bluewater Bay, which lies between Port Elizabeth and Coega, for 16 years. The area is very quiet, laid-back and relaxed. It s almost a seaside town. Quinton says it s common to see people walking with their families or walking their dogs. We even have Father Christmas coming across the river in a boat every year over the Christmas period. Bluewater Bay has a friendly, village-type vibe where the neighbours actually care about each other and look out for one another. There s a strong sense of community in Bluewater Bay. It s not uncommon to see people walking down the beach picking up litter. We also have an active and successful neighbourhood watch, says Quinton. Uren Bluewater Bay has several upmarket homes and its proximity to the Coega Industrial Development Zone has made it particularly popular. Bluewater Bay Picture: Fredlin Adriaan It s close to the city, yet it feels like you re living in the country, says Quinton. The area is also a popular destination for water sports enthusiasts who go down to the river to surf, swim, fish and parasail. The proximity to the water was a definite drawcard for the Urens. The scene is always changing, whether it s the seasons, the changing tides or the spectacular storms from the west, says Quinton, describing the beautiful view from his home. I find the view of the water very relaxing. There s nothing like it. Bluewater Bay Picture: Fredlin Adriaan The Urens have seen many things change in Bluewater Bay over the last 16 years. There has been lots of expansion, like the shopping centre, a convenience centre with a petrol station, takeaways, a gym and a pharmacy. There s also a cycle path all the way from Wells Estate through Bluewater Bay and into town. A bonus of living in Bluewater Bay is the area s closeness to the Sundays River, which is a gateway into the Addo Elephant National Park. Bluewater Bay Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Property prices Median asking prices in Bluewater Bay are in the region of R1.79-million for a typical four-bedroomed house. Rentals for a three-bedroomed house in this suburb are in the region of R9000. Bluewater Bay Picture: Fredlin Adriaan QUINTON S FAVOURITE PLACES Bluewater Bay Beach The Sundays River His home (which he says is ideal for entertaining) Bluewater Bay Picture: Fredlin Adriaan THINGS TO DO IN THE AREA Visit New Brighton Beach just before Bluewater Bay. Walk the Aloe Trail which begins at Tippers Creek Road between Bluewater Bay and Amsterdamhoek. Enjoy whale watching between July and December. Bluewater Bay Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share