Stephen Mokoka crosses the line to win the ASA Half-Marathon Championships. Gallo Images South Africans clinched both the men s and women s titles but not before a rules violation rocked the ASA Half-Marathon Championships at Pollok Beach on Saturday. In a fast men s event, Central Gauteng s Stephen Mokoka clinched his seventh South African 21.1km title in 10 years in a time of one hour, one minute and 21 seconds. That was enough to edge Central North West s Elroy Gelant into second place by nine seconds. Precious Mashele finished third in the open race in 1:01:56. But Mashele was competing as an individual and was ineligible for championship medals, so the bronze went to EP star Melikhaya Frans, who finished fourth overall in 1:01:58. There was drama in the women s race, where first and second-placed Ethiopian runners Genet Abdurkadi (1:11:45) and Elisabeth Arsedo (1:12:20) were both disqualified for not having their race numbers visible on their backs as per ASA regulations. This came after an appeal was lodged by team Central Gauteng. It was a costly mistake, especially for Abdurkadi as the R50 000 for first place and the title were then awarded to South Africa s Cornelia Joubert (Central Gauteng), who ran a time of 1:12:31, beating her previous best by six seconds. Her team-mate, Mapaseka Makhanya, was declared second in 1:12:43, smashing her best by almost two minutes. Lebogang Phalula made it a full house of medals for Central Gauteng women, winning bronze in 1:14:25. They [the Ethiopian runners] wore the front race number correctly but the back race number, which has all the competition sponsors on it, was covered up by the licence number, race director Mike Mbambani said. Rules are rules and they were stipulated on the entry form. Everyone has a duty to read the entry form correctly. Meanwhile, Mokoka, 32, said he had to fight hard for his money as this year s competition was tough. This was a strong field. I saw a young boy from here [Melikhaya Frans] he s a very strong guy, I remember him from when he was young. I like the way he ran and the support he got as well from his home town. It was good for him, Mokoka said. The long-distance runner said he was happy with the win after a tricky start to the season. This year started very rough for me, he said. I had an injury during the year, so this win shows that I am getting better day by day. Running a 61min, I didn t expect that, I am very happy with my performance. The weather was good, the pace was good as well, because I think we ran almost even splits. For Frans, Saturday s result was a major improvement on his 36th place of last year. He said the race had been an emotional one for him, and the 27-year-old crossed the finish line with tears rolling down his cheeks. On Wednesday I got a call informing me that my sister passed away from cancer so I had dedicated this race to her. I am very happy that I managed to finish in fourth place and in 1.01.58. Meanwhile, female winner Joubert said this year s race conditions were perfect. The last two years we raced here the weather was not nice, but today it was beautiful. The supporters were also amazing, which gave me the power to go on. Local runner Ntombesintu Mfunzi finished 10th to claim a R3 000 prize and also collected the R8 000 prize for the first EPA female. She added another R4 000 for finishing first in the 35-39 women s category. Her time of 1:17:31 was better than last year (1:21:21). University of Tshwane electrical engineering student Vuyokazi Gebe won the Datsun Go in the lucky draw. Helenvale Primary won sports equipment valued at R10 000 for the school with the most entrants, followed by Fontein (R8 000), Gertrude Shope (R6 000), Engeleni (R4 000) and Alpha Primary (R2 000). Additional reporting by Mogan Segadavan Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share