There are free musical experiences on Central Beach every weekend of the Plett Arts Festival The Plett Arts Festival kicks off on the same day as the National Arts Festival in Grahamstown next week, with some of the same funnymen on its stages. The Plett Fringe entertains the crowds on Thursday June 29 with the comedy of Pay Back the Curry at The White House Theatre. Then, on June 30 and July 1, Nik Rabinowitz brings his one-hander Fortyfied to the same venue. The comic shows are part of the three-week celebration that is Plettenberg Bay s annual arts festival, providing a large economic and cultural boost for a community sorely in need of relief after the recent devastating fires. Starring Daniel Richards, Pay Back the Curry is a one-person satirical revue by award-winning playwright Mike van Graan, produced by Siv Ngesi and directed by Rob van Vuuren. Both Pay Back the Cur r y and Fortyfied then move on to Grahamstown to continue their entertaining streak. In addition to the comic turns, there is also music, a food and film festival, literary liaisons, art galore and the regular markets. This year, there is a new feature to the Plett Arts Festival called the Plett Sunsets, which is an assortment of free musical experiences showcased on Central Beach every weekend between July 14 and 30. The festival is also fine tuning its music offerings with a Family Saints Gospel Singers Extravaganza Show, shows at The Barnyard, Jesse Clegg, Robin Auld and Wendy Oldfield and performances at Surf Caf . Then, there is another family event in the form of the Plett Country Fair at The Yard on July 1 and 2. For those looking for brain food, Dr Jenna Jambeck will give a talk on the Plett Thought Leadership programme next weekend. The environmental engineer will give a presentation on Plastic Waste Inputs from Land into the Ocean: Can We Come Together to solve this Global Problem? Then there is the Plett Arts Twilight Meander every Thursday during the festival, from 4 to 6.30pm at different locations on Main Street on July 6, 13 and 20. This gives visitors the chance to discover and meet local artists and enjoy their work at design and d cor studios, art galleries and coffee shops, over a cup of coffee or glass of wine. While you meander, Main Street will be pumping with cultural dance groups performing at Market on Main. Pick up the Plett Arts Twilight Meander map to make sure you know where to go. For more information about the line-up of events at this year s Plett Arts Festival, which is scheduled for June 30 to July 22, or to purchase tickets, visit Plett Tourism s website at www.pletttourism.com and Quicket. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share