Kevin Abram, centre, with Janet Sklar and Kristo Zondagh After a run of sold-out shows, Kevin Abraham s ensemble group Folkify is back to perform their brand of acoustic folk at the Music Kitchen tomorrow night. The Port Elizabeth trio say the audience is in for yet another tasty helping of folk-style music, led by one of the city s leading musos in this genre. I ve been blessed with two brilliant young musicians to help me interpret a wide selection of interesting music, Kevin says. We re excited about our audience s enthusiasm for what we re doing on the stage and we are going all-out to deliver on their expectation. They come for original songs, interesting stories, and clever acoustic interpretations of well-known golden oldies. With years of performing behind him, Kevin Abraham shines on vocals and guitar, while Janet Sklar brings her talent on the violin to the stage, and member of VuDu, Kristo Zondagh, hopes to astound with his percussion mastery. Abraham is one of Port Elizabeth s leading musicians in this genre and returned to the stage earlier this year after a 20-year hiatus. During his earlier performing days, the father of two played with the likes of Johnny Clegg, Peter Sarstedt, Falling Mirror and Wendy Oldfield. We all had a great time playing. It was the heyday of live music because today that live music is not that easy but in my day you could work every single night, he said. As I ve grown older, my music style has changed, I m more gentle in my approach and the songs I write about, instead of love and lust, how I won her and lost her it s more about the wisdom that comes with growing older, having children and having friends that are with you for a long time and so I m probably starting to write things that resonate with more of an older group, he said. He describes Folkify! as a merging of guitar, violin and percussion, along with fine vocals. The show is very strong on audience engagement and, recognising this, The Music Kitchen has set up a special seating and service arrangement for the show. Tickets are R100 per person and the show starts at 8pm. Bookings and further information from Ian, 072-994-5096. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share