Eating plant-based foods is still one of the biggest trends so why not dial in with this recipe for a grain bowl of quinoa, perhaps the coolest superfood around. They re not new to 2017 but eating plant-based foods are still one of the biggest trends because so many consumers see that by reducing meat, dairy and eggs, they could lose weight, have a healthier heart and perhaps even live longer. Grain bowls are super delicious and nutritious too, so Tipiak has released a recipe using perhaps the coolest superfood around: quinoa. The palate pleaser below can also be served with a meat option if you cannot imagine complete abstention. Plus, it can be prepped in advance so is a good choice for work lunches or weeknight dinners. Quinoa with chilli-lemon eggplant and chickpea bowl This grain bowl serves between two and four people. It takes around 15 minutes to prepare, plus the draining time. The actual cooking will be between 30 and 40 minutes. Although not an instant meal, the effort is worthwhile for a super-healthy yet tasty dish. Ingredients 1 large eggplant, cubed 1 tin chickpeas, drained and patted dry 1 large red chilli, finely chopped zest of 1 lemon (use preserved lemon, if you like) 2 tsp dried oregano cup extra-virgin olive oil 1 cups cooked Tipiak Quinoa Gourmand (made according to pack instructions, cooked in chicken stock, if you like) 1 juicy, ripe tomato, cut into wedges (use heirloom tomatoes if you can find them) Dressing 200g Greek yoghurt 1 clove garlic, grated handful fresh basil leaves, finely shredded squeeze of lemon salt and freshly ground black pepper Method Salt the cubed eggplant and drain in a colander for 30 minutes, then rinse and pat dry. Toss with the chickpeas, red chilli, lemon, oregano and olive oil. Place in a single layer on a large oven tray and bake at 200 C for 30-40 minutes, tossing occasionally, until the eggplant is cooked through and the chickpeas are beginning to crisp. Combine all dressing ingredients and season to taste. Divide Tipiak Quinoa Gourmand between bowls. Top with roast vegetables and chickpeas plus any juices from the roasting tray, tomato wedges and drizzle with basil-yoghurt dressing. Serve immediately. Option: Add grilled pork tenderloin for a punch of proteini. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share