Velvet is back with a vengeance this winter, and so here is your cue from the catwalks of the north on how to wear it. New York, Milan, Paris and London Fashion Week all featured this fabric to a greater or lesser degree but you need to know how to use it to express your unique personality. Although South Africans don t generally need a heavy layer due to our more temperate seasons, this tactile fabric is a boon over the cooler months and velour in particular is extremely forgiving and very wearable. Here are a few ways the fashion pack is showing us how to wear it: High Street J Crew and Each X Other highlighted velvet jackets that can be used to glam up daywear. Dress down the luxury of velvet with a touch of military toughness in shades of khaki or camouflage print. Original The trendsetters outside the New York Fashion Week hub showed how to wear velvet: as a bright dash of teal over a massive tulle maxi, with sunshine yellow bootees peeping out at street level; as a kick-ass pair of velvet sock boots under outrageous fun fur jackets, and top-to-toe in chocolate brown velvet pyjamas. Accessories Not sure if you want to wear so much? Accessorise your winter wardrobe with just a touch, perhaps a bag, or a sleek pair of sock boots. The chain stores in Port Elizabeth have piles of velvet footwear ranging from pumps to boots. Trippy-dippy-hippy Anna Sui harked back to the psychedelic Sixties and Seventies with her jewel-hued winter range. Fur and velvet featured strongly. You could almost hear Mick Jagger and the Stones in the background. It s a wrap Tome worked the natural qualities of velour by draping in its collections, showing how strategic folds of the stretch fabric can be a forgiving figure-saviour. Classic Altuzarra kept it classic with dresses and jackets that were neatly tailored. Luxe Carolina Herrera knows how to make women look effortlessly elegant and her floor length dress in midnight blue was a classic example of her sophisticated style. Sies Marjan s asymmetrical satin skirts also made a luxurious statement, overlaid with mid-season weights of the fabric in rich jewel tones. Casual chic Giorgiou Armani used the key colours of winter to send out several items using the plush fabric. His collection included gorgeous velvet pants with front pleats and belted bow nipping the waist, as well as a separate line of nifty little velvet jackets with a drawstring waist. Accessorise with a dark bowler hat or trilby and you have a fresh and wearable winter look. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share