Sisters, from left, Nondumiso, Wendy and Nomphelo Tobi The PE Opera House continues its Jazz Afro Sundays season with a performance by Fohloza, made up of Uitenhage sisters Nondumiso, Wendy and Nomphelo Tobi, on the Barn stage at 5pm on Sunday, June 18. Fohloza was started by Nondumiso and Wendy Tobi, who began singing in church at a young age and later became a popular choice for functions in and around Uitenhage. They later formed a group called Forever Friends with Sylvester Funani, Zwai Bala and Mnoneleli Melani. Wendy and Nondumiso attended a performing arts school and toured the country with the play Behind Closed Doors which was also staged at the National Arts Festival in Grahamstown. The sisters left the Eastern Cape in search of stardom in Johannesburg, where they were scouted by kwaito group Trompies and featured in the video for their hit track, Fohloza. This became the sisters stage name and soon the group were booked for appearances on TV shows such as Backstage and Generations. Fohloza worked as backing vocalists for acclaimed artists like Miriam Makeba, Hugh Masekela, Brenda Fassie, Lebo Mathosa and Zwai Bala and also released an album, Sinqobile, which had an Afro jazz feel. After nearly a decade in Jo burg the sisters returned home to work on their new sound and gospel music material. In 2010, they shared the stage with HHP at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium opening. They also performed at the fan parks during the 2010 Fifa World Cup and later that year, younger sister Nomphelo joined the group. Join Wendy, Nomphelo and Nondumiso at the Barn on Sunday and prepare to be moved by their soulful set. After this, the next Jazz Afro Sundays acts will be Asanda Mqiki on June 25 and Joash Soobramoney on July 16. For bookings for shows at the Barn e-mail Cingiwe Skosana at cingiwe.skosana@gmail. com or Nomgcobo Mkize at nomgcobomkize@gmail.com. Tickets are R70 (R50 for pensioners). It is advisable to book. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share