Rescue workers pull a rescue dog across a river at the site of a landslide in the village of Xinmo, Mao County, Sichuan Province Picture: CNS /An Yuan via Reuters Rescuers dug through earth and rocks yesterday in an increasingly bleak search for more than 90 people still missing a day after their village in southwest China vanished under a huge landslide. At least 10 people have been confirmed dead after the avalanche of rocks buried 62 homes in Xinmo, a once-picturesque mountain village nestled by a river in Sichuan province, the local government said. The Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture of Aba revised the number of confirmed dead down from 15 to 10. The number of people who remained unaccounted for was also lowered from 118 to 93 after the prefecture said some of those earlier reported missing had been traced. Only three survivors &#8212; a couple and their one-month-old baby &#8212; have been found since heavy rain brought down a side of the mountain early on Saturday. The official Xinhua news agency cited geological experts at the site as saying the chance of finding any survivors was really slim. Relatives of the missing were also losing hope. Huo Chunlai, wearing a lace-brimmed sunhat, returned from the affected site on foot. Her cousin and two aunts lived in Xinmo. She said locals had asked rescuers to stop the search. There s no hope they re alive, Huo said. The house is in one place here but the people who were inside were dragged way out over there. They re not in the same place any more. The landslide washed away the people all over the place. You simply can t find them any more. You Sunfang and her husband drove five hours on a motorbike from another village to get news about her uncle, but police would not let them into the site. If he had lived on the edges, maybe there would have been hope. But he lived right in the middle of the slope where the landslide came down, she said, wiping away tears. At least half a dozen red excavators removed debris at the base of the grim and grey slope yesterday as rescuers in orange overalls searched between rocks for a second day. Some 3 000 workers with lifedetection instruments and sniffer dogs were taking part in the search, state media said. The landslide blocked a 2km stretch of river and 1.6km of road. In the only story of survival, Qiao Dashi, whose wife and baby also escaped, said he had woken up after 5am to change his crying son s nappy when the house shook. Rocks were in the living room. My wife and I climbed over, took the baby and got out, he told state broadcaster CCTV from his hospital bed. His parents and three-yearold daughter remain missing. In Diexi, another hamlet overlooking Xinmo, corn farmer Yang Cangxin said she knew everyone in the neighbouring village. It s so hard to imagine something like that happening when you re sleeping quietly and peacefully in your own bed. It s just awful. They had no idea what was coming, Yang said. We were all crying, heartbroken, she said. Xinmo residents were farmers who grew corn, peppercorn and potatoes, she said, though some had opened guest houses for tourists. Xu Zhiwen, the prefecture s deputy governor said there had been 142 tourists visiting the village on Friday but none of them had been buried. Some 30 people from another village brought down wheelbarrows of food and water for any survivors. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share