Kaizer Chiefs midfielder George Lebese Picture: (Photo by Lee Warren/Gallo Images) Lebese s vent about season at Chiefs sparks Twitter frenzy Rival Premier Soccer League clubs in Cape Town have lit up Twitter after beleaguered Kaizer Chiefs forward George Lebese vented his feelings about wanting to play more games. The frustrated forward tweeted that he needed more game time after another frustrating season with Chiefs who have not won a trophy in two seasons. All I wanna do is to play more football, regardless of what colour T-shirt I have on a clearly frustrated Lebese tweeted. While he had time to respond to a follower by saying no to a move Cape Town rivals Cape Town City and Ajax Cape Town were quick to jump on the Twitter bandwagon. Chiefs finished fourth in the Premier League, while having to endure early cup competition exits at the hands of Cape Town City (MTN8 quarterfinals) Free State Stars (Telkom Knockout Cup quarterfinals) and SuperSport United (Nedbank Cup quarterfinals). Lebese made a paltry 25 appearances in all competitions this past season, with only 16 starts. Cape Town City the John Comitis-owned club came in with the proverbial two-footed tackle, tweeting: You have my attention. Having been second best to their new rivals for the best part of the season Ajax Cape Town responded to Lebese s tweet with the clear message: How about red and white? Former Orlando Pirates star striker Lennox Bacela perhaps had the most telling response for Lebese with a professional tweet, saying: Welcome to the Mother City. Incensed Kaizer Chiefs fans young and old took aim at the hapless striker with some branding him lazy and not willing to work for his place. Some were sympathetic perhaps mindful of Lebese s game-breaking contributions under coach Stuart Baxter, when Amakhosi won four trophies including two PSL titles in three seasons. One tweeter, @terabytemaheso, reminded Lebese of his Mamelodi roots and quickly suggested where he should be plying his trade. It shouldn t come to that. You re a great talent, he said. They should let you come home to Mamelodi to play Caf football the tweet said, with a picture of Lebese with a Mamelodi Sundowns replica jersey from the 2006-07 season attached. The response from @MGGMdluli was equally witty yet had all the pain of a resigned Chiefs supporter: This one they can have. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share