Two people died when two vehicles collided head-on on the R75 near Patensie. Emergency services were at the scene. Picture: Supplied A head-on collision yesterday between two vehicles on the R75 near Patensie claimed two lives and left six other occupants injured, one of whom had to be airlifted to Livingstone Hospital. The road close to Cockscomb mountain had to be temporarily closed as emergency workers attended to the fatal accident, which occurred at about 9am. The two vehicles, a silver Toyota Hilux and a silver Soyat, were travelling in opposite directions when they collided head-on. The force of the collision mangled the front of the Soyat, trapping two of the vehicle s occupants, who died on the scene. The quiet stretch of road was soon filled with several Emergency Medical Service (EMS) personnel, both private and municipal, who cordoned off the road to aid the injured and clear a landing area for the Aeromed 3 provincial helicopter. Uitenhage EMS shift leader Chris McGear said the road had to be closed for about half an hour for the helicopter to land. Two LDVs [light delivery vehicles] travelling in opposite directions collided head-on. Neither of the bakkies overturned. There were five front-seat occupants in the Toyota Hilux and three front-seat occupants in the other bakkie, McGear said. All of the occupants suffered injuries. Two of the Soyat occupants were trapped in the vehicle and declared dead on arrival. The child travelling with them was taken to the Uitenhage Provincial Hospital. Four of the five occupants in the Hilux were taken by ambulance to Uitenhage Provincial and the other one, who was in a more serious condition, was airlifted to Livingstone Hospital. Three of the five patients at Uitenhage Provincial have since been discharged. The remaining two were in a stable condition and transferred to Livingstone Hospital yesterday afternoon. The man who was airlifted remains in a serious condition. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share