Lincoln Mali speaks at the NMB Leadership Summit at the Boardwalk Convention Centre. Picture: Judy de Vega Leaders must provide appropriate and ethical leadership within their own corners to fill the void left by the deficit in government leadership . This was one of the strongest calls to emerge yesterday from a packed Nelson Mandela Bay Leadership Summit, where speakers agreed that the country was suffering from a leadership crisis. With a focus on ethical leadership, the summit attracted high-calibre speakers and leaders from both the government and private sectors. This included automotive and marketing guru Brand Pretorius, dynamic Richards Bay Coal Terminal chairwoman Nosipho Siwisa Damasane and medical doctor and community activist Dr Jeff Govender. Christopher Mashigo, business development executive manager at the Coega Development Corporation and retail banker Lincoln Mali, Standard Bank s group head of card and emerging payments across Africa in personal and business banking, completed the list of speakers who also participated in brief panel discussions. Held under the auspices of NMMU which was represented by Pieter Swart and Professor Paul Poisat, the event was also attended by businessman and founder member and trustee of Ukuvula Foundation, Alfred da Costa, who delivered the welcome. The audience comprised various business and industry leaders, along with a number of academics. Pretorius stressed the critical role of leadership in society, saying it was the bedrock of everything extraordinary in life. Quoting a list of recent global rankings which related to leadership and on which the country was very poorly rated, he said: We have a major leadership challenge in South Africa. The country is in dire need of effective, ethical leadership. This leadership deficit is holding us all back. It is holding us back from achieving our common national goal, which is to create a better life for all. Pretorius, who took the audience through a list of six prerequisites required for effective leadership, ended his address with a passionate call to all leaders. Something needs to be done. This is a call to action. Everyone must embrace effective leadership. We must lead and not mislead . . . I am pleading and appealing to you all. The country needs you now more than ever before, he said. Damasane spoke of her own experiences at one of the world s leading coal terminals. She said extensive efforts had been put into lifting employee morale and improving efficiency through effective leadership. Reiterating that respect for all and strong ethics were two important components of effective leadership, she said leaders must walk the talk . Quipping that South Africa chief executives were penalised a lot because they just do not know when to leave , she warned that the rot in government and state-owned enterprises was filtering is way into private enterprise. What the president has done has filtered down to everyone, she said. She provided two other revelations, saying that communities in the country were no longer just stopping cars and blocking roads in protest, but people were now also stopping trains. Also, with respect to general living conditions and service delivery, she said: Corporate social responsibility is no longer good enough. People want jobs. It is not enough anymore that you simply build a school in a community, people want jobs. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share