Katherine Jenkins and Andrew Levitas World-renowned singer Katherine Jenkins donated her fee from a private function at the weekend in England to the Port Elizabeth based Wilderness Foundation Global. The classical singer and OBE recipient was singing at a private Jaguar Land Rover event at the Rosewood London Hotel, and made the gesture due to her passion to protect the endangered rhino. Jenkins and her artist/filmmaker husband, Andrew Levitas, are both ambassadors of Wilderness Foundation Global and spent time near Port Elizabeth where they were exposed to the rhino poaching crisis and took part in a rhino notching exercise. During her performance on Saturday, she said: Through the Wilderness Foundation, in early 2015, when I was three months pregnant, my husband and I had the incredible experience of darting a rhino at the Shamwari Game reserve near Port Elizabeth. It s hard to talk about this without getting emotional. I stroked and comforted the four-year-old calf while we helped with performing the necessary tests. I held her in my arms and felt her breath on my face and her heartbeat in my hands. The take away for me was this I was carrying a child that may never see a rhino in the wild and I cannot and will not stand back and let that happen. Due to her passion for wildlife and the protection of endangered species, specifically the rhino, Katherine Jenkins donated her fee for the event to the Wilderness Foundation Global. The donation will be used for the Forever Wild Rhino Protection Initiative, which focuses on the protection of this dwindling species in South Africa. WFG is the only international conservation organisation born out of and operating in Africa, which is dedicated explicitly to wilderness awareness and protection through their three focus areas of Species, Spaces and People. More information on the Wilderness Foundation Global from Andrew Muir, Andrew@wildernessfoundation.org . &nbsp; Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share