While working at her uncle s laundromat in Cape Town Monika PonSu-San never thought her life would change forever when a Russian artist asked her to sit for him to paint her portrait in 1952. She later became known as The Chinese Girl the title of the painting which had tremendous commercial success in the 20th century. The woman with the pensive face had died earlier this month in Johannesburg, at the age of 86, her daughter, Margo Su-San, said. The painting gained popularity after renowned artist Vladimir Tretchikoff sold it to a woman in Chicago in 1953. It is distinct for the blue green and copper shades used in the skin tone. So popular was the painting that it featured among others in David Bowie s The Stars Are Out Tonight music video in a Don Paterson poem God s Gift To Women The White Stripes music video Dead Leaves And The Dirty Ground and Alfred Hitchcock s film Frenzy. The painting catapulted Monika to stardom. She was interviewed countless times by South African and international media. In 2011 the Tretchikoff: The People s Painter exhibition was held at the South African National Gallery. The Green Lady as she was also called was the main attraction. Russian author Boris Gorelik who wrote a biography on Tretchikoff said in an interview published in The Herald: I m still amazed at how unpretentious she and her family are. Their lives weren t easy. The Green Lady didn t bring them fortune and fame. And still Monika says this was perhaps the best thing that ever happened to her. The painting over time found its way back to South Africa and was put on display at the Delaire Graff Estate in Stellenbosch. British businessman jeweller and chairman of Graff Diamonds International, Laurence Graff paid about R15-million for it in 2013 at an auction in London. Tretchikoff suffered a stroke in 2002 and died in 2006 in Cape Town. Monika enjoyed the limelight of being The Chinese Girl but never made any money out of it. A statement by Margo Su-San said: After she got married in 1953 she moved to Johannesburg with her husband. Her marriage fell apart early on and she raised her five children by working as a shipping clerk and in her spare time as a dressmaker. She subsequently met her life partner Enrico Tabasso and a love story ensued that spanned 44 years. Monika is survived by Enrico two sons and three daughters. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share