The rumour about Cristiano Ronaldo s exit from Real Madrid is gaining momentum and inevitably circulating in the red half of Manchester. The uncertainty about the player came after Spanish prosecutors filed a lawsuit against him for alleged tax fraud of 13-million (R216-million) between 2011 and 2014. Spanish powerhouse Real Madrid are reportedly ready to pay Ronaldo s tax bill to keep him at the club. Club president Florentino Perez issued a statement to assure Madrid fans that he d do everything in his power to convince the player to stay. Manager Zinedine Zidane cut shor t his holiday to have a conversation with the player. Ronaldo has a 1-billion (R14.5-billion) release clause in his Real Madrid contract. His wages are about 400 000 (R6-million) a week. In 2015 his agent said it would cost any club 300-million (R4.9-billion) to lure him. He got a new five-year contract this year, one that will pay him like the best player in the world after his inevitable decline. Three Champions League titles in four seasons is a ridiculous accomplishment for any footballer. Forbes estimates that Ronaldo will make $93-million (R1.2-billion) this year, making him the world s highest paid athlete. The tax obligation could easily be paid, but his reputation is what matters. Even leaving Spain won t make tax fraud charges disappear. In the world of soccer transfer rumours, it s difficult to separate fact from fiction. Anyone who wasn t in the room when Ronaldo said he wanted to leave Madrid won t know how serious he was. If he leaves Real Madrid, he s guaranteed to go down in history as the second- best player of his generation. However, he doesn t need to have footballing or financial reasons that we can understand easily to leave Real Madrid. He s been a club icon of our generation and keeps breaking club records every time he sets the football on the field. I d love to see him more in the La Liga or a Real Madrid shirt. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share