Makazole Mapimpi will look to provide extra thrust to the Kings backline at Ellis Park File picture: Richard Huggard / Gallo Images Argentine opponents have just finished test series Argentina s energysapping test programme could leave the Jaguares side weary and vulnerable when they face the Southern Kings in a Super Rugby showdown in Buenos Aires on July 1. While the Kings have been enjoying a break from match action, most of the Jaguares have been involved in a gruelling two-match series against England and a one-off test against Georgia. The Argentine team is littered with Jaguares players, who will have little time to catch their breath before they face a re-energised Kings side. Though the Argentines went down in both England tests, the games were hard- fought. England sealed a 2-0 series victory over Argentina after winning another enthralling test against Argentina in Santa Fe on Saturday. After narrowly winning the first test 38-34, England won the second encounter 35-25 to take the series. The Kings have also been affected by the international window, but not to the same extent. Kings captain Lionel Cronje, Makazole Mapimpi, Andisa Ntsila and Chris Cloete have been involved in the two-match series between South African A and the French Barbarians. The Kings, last in action against the Lions at Ellis Park on May 28, said they would lift the intensity in preparing for the Jaguares clash this week. On the one side, you want continuity in your play and to stay involved against very good opposition in international games, Kings head coach Deon Davids said. It will be a challenge for them and they will be a bit tired after three weeks of international matches. It s not nice to be out of action for three weeks, so you have to regain your rhythm and the feeling for the game. Some of our men are playing for SA A and some have played in Super- Sport, so it is a question of getting things going again. Hopefully, things will work out for us, Davids said. Several contenders for the Southern Kings will be included in the EP Kings team to face the Boland Cavaliers in a key Super- Sport Challenge clash in George on Saturday. It is expected that experienced prop Schalk Ferreira, back in full training after a biceps injury, will be among those chosen for a match the EP Kings have to win to qualify for the playoffs. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share