HIGH QUALITY PERFORMANCE: South Africa s Siya Kolisi celebrates after scoring a try against France during their international test match at Kings Park in Durban Picture: AFP Stormers star nails down his permanent place in Bok squad Like many players in the Springboks setup over the past 12 months Siya Kolisi was not guaranteed a place in the squad let alone in the starting XV at any stage. But over the past 10 days that has changed and the explosive flank has nailed down his position in the Bok back row for the foreseeable future. Kolisi s performance in the second test against France at Kings Park was the best of his career at any level and pleasingly also a continuation of a series of consistently high quality outings this year. He was immense against France scoring a try creating another making several crucial turnovers and putting in a huge shift on defence as the Boks won 37-15 to clinch the three-test series with a match to spare. Schalk Burger has always been an inspiration to the current Stormers captain and over the past two weeks Kolisi has played with the same intensity Burger did. There can be no higher compliment. Of course no individual performance happens in isolation and the work of others around him notably hard-hitting replacement flank Jean-Luc du Preez and lock Franco Mostert, dovetailed perfectly with Kolisi s high work rate. That s the best I ve ever felt after a Springbok match was Kolisi s measured assessment of his performance. Look we work hard all week to improve our skills. After and before training, individual players are doing their own skills drills because that s an area in which we as SA rugby players have been lacking. By putting in personal effort on skills when it comes to collective team training we can focus on other important things. Kolisi tops the stats in some important categories during this series he is first in turnovers won and dominant tackles with five and seven respectively. He has also made 16 ball carries and carved off 232m an impressive 14.5m per carry. Considering he takes the ball up in heavily defended channels that is a sensational return. Like Burger Kolisi is not a classic openside flank and he has made it clear in the past that he does not want to be a fetcher either. The Boks like the Stormers are operating on the basis of collaborative effort at the breakdown rather than tasking a lone individual as a primary ball stealer. So far the plan is working with a wide range of players, from tighthead prop Frans Malherbe to centre Jan Serfontein making steals. The Boks made four breakdown turnovers in the match but Kolisi revealed that they were not specifically targeting the French breakdown. Their success in that area was due to improved decision-making by individuals. The coaches give us a lot of freedom and responsibility to make a decision whether to go for the ball or not Kolisi said. Our primary focus wasn t on the breakdown but rather to have more guys to make double tackles to neutralise their big heavy pack. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share