East London-born talent agent Elsubie Verlinden is giving Port Elizabeth artists an opportunity to showcase their talents this weekend at the PE Opera House on June 24. Verlinden the director of Just You Models and Artist Management as well as the producer of The ARTS Talent Showcase, said it was a life- changing moment to embrace this journey with artist and models they have scouted throughout the country. Verlinden is also the exclusive agent for the New York Film Academy and the South African director of the Applause Rising Talent Showcase (Arts) International Expo. Each year for the past seven years, Verlinden r alongside the director of admissions, Elouise Janse van Rensburg, have been travelling around the country scouting talent with the hope of sending them overseas and becoming success stories. Scouting talent and being able to create local and international film and fashion opportunities for artist is my true passion and purpose in life! Being able to equip and create is what fuels our success and passion for the performing ARTS, Verlinden said.. One of their biggest success stories, former Theodor Herzl High School pupil, Gino Lee, who attended the International ARTS Talent Showcase in 2012 was selected by international scout, Kim Myers, who is most famous for her breakthrough role in the 1985 horror movie, A Nightmare on Elm Street. I was scouted by Kim and was invited to showcase at the International ARTS Convention overseas in 2012 and when I was there, I received 18 callbacks from managers, casting director and received a scholarship to study at the New York Film Academy, Lee said. Lee, who is now based in Cape Town returned to South Africa nine months ago after graduating from New York and working in Los Angeles. The singer, songwriter and actor has recently wrapped up a German movie which was filmed in the Mother City. The movie to be released next year is called On the Run is centred around refugees, Lee said. The Cape Town-based artist said he also has a song out playlisted across radio stations called Back To Me. Lee praised the showcase and added it prepared me for the entertainment business and gave me the tools I needed to thrive in the business, Lee said. The auditions will take place from 9am at the PE Opera House and for more details, contact Elouise Janse van Rensburg on (011) 039-2481 or e-mail: itsartsafrica@gmail.com. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share