Cast aside those fish oil capsules, says Rowan Pelling, it s regular lovemaking that will stimulate your memory and brain. We have a catchphrase at The Amorist magazine: having sex may not make you smarter, but smart people definitely have more sex. It seems the first part of our mantra was far too hesitant. Scientists from Oxford and Coventry Universities have just published research suggesting the brain-boosting effects of regular sexual activity on 50-somethings verbal fluency and visual memory. You can only assume champion Scrabble players go at the act of intimacy like crazed stoats. None of these revelations come as a huge surprise. Poets have known for centuries that passion is the path to the most enthralling verse. No one walks away from the collected works of Shakespeare without knowing they ve encountered a writer with extensive experience of physical rapture. It just took science a while to catch up. Professors at Rutgers University in New Jersey, armed with a state-of-the-art MRI scanner, have shown the brain floods with blood, oxygen and nutrients at the point of orgasm activating key areas associated with neurological function. Frequent exercise improves almost every aspect of human function, so it makes sense horizontal exercise is a universal panacea. Men who remain sexually active are less likely to suffer prostate cancer, while female enthusiasts enjoy cardiovascular benefits. There s also evidence that people who maintain active sex lives live longer than those who don t. And then there s sex s mood-enhancing properties: swifter and surer than any medication. Although, we surely don t need scientists to tell us people who enjoy a fulfilling love life tend to be more cheerful and relaxed than their more frustrated counterparts. Whenever I ve encountered a particularly grumpy and obstructive person in the workplace, I ve thought, There s an individual who could do with a little more loving. The fact we now know sex has brain-enhancing properties is just the cherry on the icing on the erotic cake. Although, admittedly, it does give sensualists an excellent excuse to disport themselves even more frequently. Finding The Daily Telegraph crossword a bit tricky today? Simply grab your beloved and enjoy an instant boost to your neural connectivity. The producers of Mastermind and University Challenge may find themselves having to install love cubicles in place of a green room, to allow contestants their best shot at success. But surely this news is most cheering for the older section of the population who live in dread of encroaching dementia. They can throw away the fish oil and take up good, old-fashioned knee-tremblers instead. Five health benefits of more sex in midlife: News that regular action in your fifties and beyond improves brain function will have had teenagers rolling their eyes in embarrassment the country over. People don t like to think that older people have sex, admits study author Dr Hayley Wright from Coventry University. But we need to challenge this conception at a societal level. There are countless reasons to continue having sex in your fifties and older, from improved emotional health to the many physical benefits, agrees Barbara Bloomfield, a relate therapist and author of (ITALICISE) Couples Therapy: Dramas of Love and Sex. So with that in mind, here s why plenty of what you fancy is up there with sleep and exercise in benefiting mind, body and soul. 1. You ll become smarter As well as the Coventry and Oxford study, a study last year from Canada suggested that women who have regular sex have better memories. A team at McGill University found a link between regular sex and the growth of nervous tissue in the area of the brain that controls our emotions and memory. 2. You ll look younger Put down that expensive eye cream: scientists at the Royal Edinburgh Hospital have found older couples having regular sex look five to seven years younger than those who rarely have sex. Dr David Weeks, who led the 10-year study, found that if the sex was loving and pleasure was derived from it, hormones were released that made the skin more elastic and youthful. Weeks found that casual sex didn t have the same effects, as it could cause anxiety and feelings of insecurity. 3. You ll get fewer colds Having sex at least once a week has been found to raise your body s levels of immunoglobulin A (known as IgA), which is a cold and flu-fighting antibody. IgA is the first line of defence against colds and flu, says Carl Chenetski from Wilkes University in Pennsylvania, whose study found that couples who have sex once or twice a week have 30% higher levels of IgA. 4. You ll feel happier A study of 8 000 people over the age of 50 from Trinity College Dublin found that couples who maintain a healthy sex life in later life were less likely to feel depressed and were more positive about ageing. 5. Your heart health will improve Research seems to suggest that regular sex can reduce your risk of a heart attack. Researchers at Queen s University in Belfast found a weekly roll in the sheets can halve the risk of a heart attack or stroke. How to lift your libido We know we should be having more sex. But how can you get yourself in the mood when it s been a tough week and there s something good on TV? Sex in later life is like a muscle you have to use it or lose it, says Barbara Bloomfield. So, the rules are: Get enough sleep: Research published in the journal Menopause found those who sleep fewer than five hours have less satisfying sex lives. Eat more fat: Healthy fats, like those found in oily fish and avocado, are important for overcoming a low libido, says nutritionist Marilyn Glenville. Take exercise Glenville recommends couples exercise to keep their libidos up. But put off that marathon; a 2017 study from the University of North Carolina found that high-intensity workouts can reduce a man s sex drive. Kiss for longer Kissing for 15 seconds stimulates a woman s reactive arousal , says Bloomfield. The Daily Telegraph. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share