Whatsapp is just the new-fangled way of saying I m here for you, no matter what says St Francis Bay freelance journalist Beth Cooper Howell My friend Jane and I chat at least once a day, mostly about the weather, our kids schedules, load-shedding and how her work (she s an artist) and mine is going. We re regular phone buddies and frankly, I m not entirely sure how I would cope without her in my life. Our script not infrequently goes like this, sometime between 9am and noon: Chicken, I m in a flap please could you fetch Sam at 2pm? I m not going to make it back in time. All good (thumbs up emoticon). I can fetch, no problem!!! It s a big thing, community. It takes all kinds to make one, and you don t necessarily have to back-pocket socially with everyone, all the time, or ever, but when it comes down to brass tacks, we can t do this alone. Just recently, a few of us began discussing upcoming exams for our little ones their first biggies and for most of us, our first time as parents of children who write actual exams in actual school for actual marks . Academics brought us together, but humour kept us there. At first, there were two and now, we are four a brief message to the group (surely Whatsapp messenger service was invented by a woman?) elicits howls of sympathy and hugs of reassurance. It s okay, we say to the other, of course she ll be fine; and yes, that s the right chapter; and no, of course I don t mind re-sending the schedule. In the work of a great philosopher, one of whose books I m reading at present, it is said that we attract into our lives that which we intrinsically are. If your inner circle is populated mostly by angry, hostile and argumentative people, then don t blame them for making your life miserable consider how you ve attracted them in the first place. I like this idea because whenever I spend a little time genuinely getting to know someone and not making assumptions based on dress, or class, or the briefest of exchanges in Spar I subconsciously draw them into my inner circle and become twice-blessed: first, because it feels good to have them around and second, because two people together automatically equals a community. I am an introvert and enjoy spending a lot of time alone, but I couldn t do that without the positive people who populate my space and make it a warmer, safer and more practical place to live. Jane gets me, is always there to help and happy to have me do the same, understands, as my other personal circle community members do, my joys and frustrations about this and that and generally, makes up a healthy and happy part of my life. Our forefathers really understood the value of the collective. In this harassed, modern day and age, when the race of the individual seems more important than group effort, it s good to remember that being a Whatsapp away is just the new-fangled way of saying: I m here for you, no matter what. St Francis Bay freelance journalist Beth Cooper Howell takes a look at the other side of life in Woman on Top, her weekly lifestyle column for The Herald. &nbsp; Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share