Tender Mavundla on The Voice SA The Top 8 contestants of The Voice SA were revealed on Sunday after viewers voted for their favourite two contestants to remain in the competition. Team Lira s Luke Lovemore from Cape Town was the viewers choice after fans voted for the singer and Team Bobby s Caroline Brussow from Bloemfontein secured her spot in the Top 8 after receiving the most votes. Fortunately for the coaches, from now on who stays in the competition is up to fans who will vote for the singer they want to keep in the competition. Team Bobby s Josh Ansley brought the house down with his rendition of Sex on Fire by Kings of Leon and surprised audiences at the Mosaeik Teatro when he started his performance off stage. With his undeniable raspy tone, coach Lira said if there was ever an international The Voice competition, Josh would be her choice to represent South Africa. Ansley, who revealed he had a theatre background, said any onstage experience provided an advantage. I feel at home on stage even though on this particular stage I m terrified. Having an audience I can perform in front of is what I ve been chasing for the past 15 years. I feel honoured by Lira s comment. Every week production tells us we re not fighting each other but fighting ourselves and every week we have to do even better than the last week, Ansley said. Channeling her inner Whitney Houston, Team Lira s Tender Mavundla sang I m Every Woman and did not disappoint, showcasing her vocal range. Mavundla, who is no stranger to reality competitions, made Idols SA Top 4 and previously won Jam Alley Megastar Competition back in 1997. She said that The Voice SA was her way of redeeming herself and getting back into the music scene no matter what the outcome is . I ve been in the industry for 20 years now and this time around it s different. This platform right now is totally priceless. My career right now, even if I don t make it to the finals, is back on track and I m not letting it go again, Mavundla said. To find out on how to vote for your favourite contestant, go to The Voice SA airs every Sunday at 5.30pm and the repeat is on channel 115 every Monday at 6pm. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share