The Isaac Booi Senior Primary team will represent the Eastern Cape in the Danone Nations Cup U12 national finals in Boksburg this weekend The stage is set for a cracking Danone Nations Cup U12 national soccer finals in Boksburg this weekend, with the winning school to compete in the world finals in the United States in September. It starts at Reiger Park on Saturday. Port Elizabeth school Isaac Booi Senior Primary are among nine provincial contenders vying for the national title. Mbishi Mokoena, of Benny s Sports Academy and Development, won the nationals last year. He has advised the coaches to encourage the youngsters to have fun and enjoy the experience. This is not the time to put pressure on and push them, he said. For these last few days it is important to do simple things and rest key players so there are no injuries. The coaches must focus on the mental, not the physical aspect of the game. Just explain to the boys what to expect. They are already champions, having come this far. This is their day to shine. I also advise the coaches to allow the kids to express themselves and show off their talents. Don t shout at them from the side of the field. They have had them since January it is time to let them show what they have and how they perform on the big stage. There has been one change to the original school lineup, with Kuruman s Bankara-Bodulong Intermediate School now representing the Northern Cape, replacing Roodepan Primary. Their coach, Gaza Mosala, who has a Safa level 2 coaching certificate, has declared the team ready and able to step in. Danone internal communications manager Chantel Ehlers said: As well as [having] the best U12 soccer teams in the country playing, we have turned the outer fields into an [activity] area where anyone can come and enter skills competitions and win prizes. Our kit sponsors, Mille, will also be there with more than 100 pairs of footwear to be won. For the younger kids we have jumping castles, face painters and all sorts of other entertaining things to do. Provincial teams competing: Sekusile Primary (Mpumalanga), Mophela Primary (KwaZulu-Natal), Isaac Booi Senior Primary (Eastern Cape), Phaphama Public (Free State), Ida s Valley Primary (Western Cape), Haggai Independent (Limpopo), Mmamitlwa Primary (North West), Arcon Park Primary (Gauteng), Bankara-Bodulong Intermediate (Northern Cape) Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share