STANDING TALL: St Andrew s player Paul Marriner, right, controls possession as he is challenged by a Pearson opponent in their hockey clash in Grahamstown on Friday Picture: Supplied The St Andrew s College first XI gave another disciplined performance to defeat Pearson 6-1 in their boys hockey clash at the weekend, with Luke Hobson in outstanding form. The hard work of the strikers also paid off as the goals were shared among a number of them. A special mention needs to be made of the injured Ross Vides, who has had to watch many practices and matches while patiently awaiting his return to sport. He has been an integral part of the coaching at both U16A and first team practices and much credit most go to him for the success of the strikers in these teams. In other action, the U14C side turned around a 4-1 midweek loss to an U16 Kingswood side to beat their Pearson counterparts 5-0 on Saturday, with both Oisin van Niekerk and Kitso Makgathle showing composure in front of the goal. The U14B team were rampant on Wednesday to beat Kingswood 10-1, but could not find the net against Pearson and went down 2-1. The U14A side won 4-1, with Sam Francis and Murray Bowker displaying disciplined defensive skills. The U16D and U16C outfits both lost to Pearson, but the U16Ds are showing true character and recorded a notable 2-0 win against Kingswood U14B on Wednesday. Ratnadityasinh Chavda and Harry Sandell had very good games. The U16Bs drew 2-2 against Pearson, and the U16As won 3-0, with Kirk Nevay and Guy Rushmere posing constant threats to the visitors defence. The fourths had a 1-1 draw versus Pearson and the thirds were unlucky to lose 2-1. Chris Flower and Sam Orsmond both had outstanding games. The second team lost 6-2 against a talented Pearson striking force, but showed composure and determination to the final whistle. The following St Andrew s players have been selected for the Eastern Province squads: U14B: Matt Pope, Jurie Norval, David Redfern U14A: William Stewart U16B: Cameron Chadwick, James Mullins, Tom Russell U16A: Ryan Stoddart U18B: Tao Varty, Paul Marriner, Murray Breetzke U18A: Luke Hobson, Peter Jarvis, Thabo Sifumba, Josh Marx, Richard Brown Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share