Port Elizabeth music lovers are in for a rocking night as Eddie Macs@VP will be hosting the Eddie Mac s Rock Fest 3 at their sports club and restaurant in South End tomorrow. The festival kicks off at 3pm and is expected to continue until late. For a R50 ticket, rock n roll fans will be able to sample the talent of many of PE s top rock bands. The featured bands include Bazirk, Coast to Coast, Tomboys, Silhouette 3, Bay City Rockers, Beanie Rebels, Rob Thompson Band, Twisted Truth and Pink Lippz, who will each bring their special blend to the stage come Youth Day. This is definitely going to be one of the highlights of the calendar this year, Eddie Macs@VP owner Eddie Falconer said. Where else can you see eight top-notch live bands for only R50? We are looking forward to presenting the best collection of musical talent to PE crowds. This is undoubtedly the highest level of rock we ve seen in years. Twisted Truth bassist Pierre Marais and lead guitarist JJ Gouws are the masterminds behind organising the festival. We can promise this is going to be a big show. It is not often you get to experience so many big bands in one venue, Marais said. The audience can expect a wide variety of rock n roll music ranging from the classic rock of the 60s to the glam rock of the 70s, to the alternative rock of the 80s. Gouws said a festival of this type was long overdue in the city. The first rock festival we organised in 2003 was a huge success with close to 900 people attending and in 2006 we held Rock Fest 2, with over 2000 people attending over the three days. So we are looking forward to the same kind of success this year with the revival of the festival. The music scene in PE has always been a close-knit community. We saw this as an opportunity for bands in our town to unite and celebrate one another s talents, Marais said. This is something we want to continue on a yearly basis so we encourage all music fans in PE to come out and support these bands. Pink Lippz lead guitarist Izzy Stainz said the band was excited to introduce their glam rock sound to a wider audience. We are always focused on bridging the gap between the older fans of this style of music and introducing the younger generation to a sound of the past. Apart from the various food and drinks specials that will be running on the day, there will also be a R5 000 holiday voucher to be won, as well as lucky-draw hampers up for grabs. Tickets will be available at the door on the night. For inquiries contact Eddie Falconer on 083-225-1093. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share