Miss Mamelodi Sundowns EC 2016 Oarabile Modibana with the new Mr PE UberMaNn 2017 Jon-Paul Raper at the Yokhuselo Haven Purple Liberation Launch this week Picture: Gillian McAinsh This has been a sad, but also heartening week. First we thought welcome rains were on their way but instead we have seen tragedy unfold as devastating fires have ravaged the Knysna area. Skinner s heart goes out to the many who have lost homes and possessions. It is encouraging to see folks, including from the Bay and all over the Eastern Cape, reaching out to help those who are worst affected. On a happier note, let me tell you what your favourite Skinnerbek got up to last weekend and would you believe me if I said it involved a male pageant hopeful wearing only electric green underpants? Last Saturday a seriously overdressed Skinner went to the Sun Boardwalk Mr PE UberMANn 2017 competition to see who would be crowned the hunkiest of them all. I have to admit that the eventual winner, though handsome, was not in my top three. I thought Korsten contestant Zeno Adams was going to win because the audience seemed to love him and he had a great personality. Reuann Smith from Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism was one of the judges and if you have not seen her in a while, then you had better search and find her, because this girl is looking gorgeous these days. Former Miss Teen Commonwealth Asande Mchunu was also there, showing off her model figure in a strappy, long, figure-hugging dress. My oh my, she is a stunner. Last Sunday, one of my minions was lucky enough to get an exclusive invite to watch The Voice SA show live at the Mosaeik Teatro in Johannesburg, where she spotted the likes of Cindy Nel, Denise Zimba and Bobby van Jaarsveld. The ladies love Bobby and now we know why. It s because he simply has that thing (insert Hlaudi Motsoeneng meme) and he always has a gorgeous smile plastered on his face. Here at home, I caught some local sounds with Nosisi Mavela performing at The Barn at the PE Opera House. Actor Xabiso Zweni looked dapper, but I really could not see a need for those Bob Dylan shades inside each to his own I guess. Cingiwe Skosana was sporting a new do and Skinner approves. The show was sold out and it seems PE people are finally doing away with that irritating tendency of not supporting their own. Have fun this weekend, darlings, but do keep the residents of Knysna and surrounds and also those closer to home in your thoughts and prayers. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share