The South African Football Association (Safa) expects to make a complete financial turnaround and report a R33-million profit when the final numbers are tallied by auditors for the financial year ending tomorrow. The football body reported staggering losses of more than R40-million at its yearly congress six months ago, but Safa president Danny Jordaan said yesterday they had projected a move back into the black in the current financial year. The auditors still have to sign off on the final numbers, but Jordaan said their financials had a healthy look about them because of: R10-million from the SABC; R11.7-million from the Confederation of African Football (Caf); R8-million from the Legacy Trust; and R4-million from SA Breweries. Jordaan said he was confident of a complete turnaround as more money was expected from other revenue streams. The contribution of Fifa will also be significant and it will be $1.2-million [R15.5-million], he said. We also have broadcast revenue from Caf, which is about R4-million. And then, on the other side, we have exercised tighter control on expenditure. So you will see that we did not have particular meetings and there is more efficiency in terms of the meetings of the regions. The other thing that we saved on was exercising more efficiency in terms of our teams. The fact that the [junior] teams are now staying at the national technical centre means that they are not staying in the hotels any more. Jordaan said after the losses they incurred in the last financial year, they sat down and looked at areas where they could reduce expenses and improve profitability. Accommodation and air travel are Safa s biggest expenditure every year and the five-year partnership with South African Airways has also had a massive impact on the financials. We are now flying with tickets that we draw from our sponsors SAA. We are now able to fly all our teams and all our members. Those two our hotel bill and our flight costs were between about R20-million to R25-million each [a year]. That means we have saved about R40-million. So it is very significant and that is how much we have reduced costs. Our car rental bill was also around R25-million [a year]. So by buying cars and giving them [the Safa regions] the cars to use, there is no charge to Safa. We pay off the cars and make a saving in one year. Jordaan said he had never understood how some of their critics kept describing the football body as bankrupt or cashstrapped. How could that be? It is not so, he said. There is no for sale sign outside Safa House. There is no or sale sign outside Fun Valley, nor on our cars and buses. What we do have is better cash-flow management and that is what we must insist on as the administration. It is what happens with money coming in and not just Safa. The sponsorship agreement makes provision for two lump-sum payments and it may be in January and in December. So you must manage your money for the period when you have no income. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share