Keegan Hull (youth category) and Mabele Mtubeli (open category) were 2016 s The Herald Citizen of the Year winners. Nominations are now open for 2017. The Herald is on the hunt for unsung heroes from the Eastern and Southern Cape to take The Herald Citizen of the Year title and this year your tip-offs are needed. Since its inception in 1989, the award ceremony, to be hosted by the Radisson Blu Hotel, has recognised those who positively contribute to the upliftment of the community and who aim to build and maintain community projects that support the wellbeing of others. Last year s Open category winner Mabele Mtubeli, 34, and Youth Citizen of the Year winner Keegan Hull, 18, said winning had greatly helped projects to flourish. It was a great privilege being nominated and winning last year. It has truly changed my life. People started to recognise me and health entities started including me in their talks and programmes, Mtubeli said. I have an influx of people coming to the clinic, I am now in charge of all health programmes within my ward, and NGOs regularly seek advice from me. Mtubeli runs a successful, free private clinic in KwaNobuhle from his mother s house, staffed by volunteers. Hull, who donated a bursary he won to a Hillside Primary pupil, also helped raise R30 000 for Animal Welfare. The former Grey High pupil said: The award assisted me in being elected as deputy head of the Grey Union association and definitely assisted my cause to help the community through my school. The Herald and Weekend Post editor Brett Horner urged readers to get involved in nominating the community s unsung heroes. We urge readers and, in fact, all citizens, to nominate the unsung heroes in the community, he said. Many are doing selfless work day in, day out, to help others, often in pitiful circumstances and with precious little access to funding and resources in general. Yet they toil for the benefit of others. These are the champions we want to acknowledge through The Herald Citizen of the Year. Together, let s showcase the best the Bay has to offer. The format this year allows readers to send in tip-offs in addition to written nominations. Tip-offs will allow readers to highlight those they believe are making a difference and reporters will follow up leads to see who should be considered as a finalist. Written nominations must be submitted to NMMU North Campus Library, the NMMU Business School situated on 2nd Avenue Campus, or Varsity College in Ring Road, Greenacres by September 8. Tip-offs can be sent via SMS. Text the word COTY, followed by the nominee s name and contact number to 41893, or call The Herald on (041) 504-7135. Alternatively, click here to enter. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share