Disaster Management Spokesman for the Western Cape, James Styan, confirmed that nine people have died in disaster related incidents across the province. The Incidents include storms in Cape Town and fires along the Garden Route. The youngest victim was a 3-year-old child in the Welbedacht area near Knysna. More than 300 structures were gutted by fires in and around Knysna. Styan also said that emergency services are still deployed throughout the affected areas. Wildfires battered Knysna and Plettenberg Bay on the Garden Route yesterday and today as fires, fuelled by storm winds, ripped through the coastal towns. A heavy storm was wreaking havoc in the drought-stricken city of Cape Town on Wednesday morning. &nbsp; The well known Knysna Terrace Guest house is gutted. Photo: Deneesha Pillay/The Herald The well known Knysna Terrace Guest house is gutted. Photo: Deneesha Pillay/The Herald I have lost everything, says Knysna resident Engela Appelgryn 37. Photo: Deneesha Pillay/The Herald Many residents lost everything in the fires that raged through the coastal towns of Knysna and Plettenberg Bay. Photo: Deneesha Pillay/The Herald Up to 10 000 residents were forced to flee their homes in Knysna overnight as fires fuelled by storm winds ripped through the Western Cape coastal town. Photo: Deneesha Pillay/The Herald Up to 10 000 residents were forced to flee their homes in Knysna overnight as fires fuelled by storm winds ripped through the Western Cape coastal town. Photo: Deneesha Pillay/The Herald Up to 10 000 residents were forced to flee their homes in Knysna overnight as fires fuelled by storm winds ripped through the Western Cape coastal town. Photo: Deneesha Pillay/The Herald Many residents lost everything in the fires that raged through the coastal towns of Knysna and Plettenberg Bay. Photo: Deneesha Pillay/The Herald Up to 10 000 residents were forced to flee their homes in Knysna overnight as fires fuelled by storm winds ripped through the Western Cape coastal town. Photo: Deneesha Pillay/The Herald Many residents lost everything in the fires that raged through the coastal towns of Knysna and Plettenberg Bay. Photo: Deneesha Pillay/The Herald The Port Elizabeth weather office released this satellite picture of the Knysna fire and Patensie/Thornhill fires from 8pm last night. The scale of both fires can be seen on the satellite image. Pic via Knysna fires 7th June Page on Facebook . Firefighters battling a blaze in Knysna Picture: Ewald Stander George Municipality has confirmed that five GO GEORGE buses have been sent to Plettenberg Bay today to help evacuate residents. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share