Southern Kings head coach Deon Davids, right. Picture: Richard Huggard If the Southern Kings eventually end up playing in a revamped northern hemisphere Pro12 competition, it would pose huge new challenges, says head coach Deon Davids. Though nothing has been decided yet, Davids was speculating on what could happen if the Kings are cut from Super Rugby. Months of uncertainty will come to an end on July 7 at a special general meeting in Cape Town which will confirm the four South African entrants to a revised Super Rugby competition from next year. Because of the delay, there has been widespread speculation that the Kings and the Cheetahs have already been cut and that they will compete in an enlarged European Pro12. Asked if he would like to be part of a potentially revamped Pro12 competition, Davids said: I would definitely like to take part in the competition. I think the Pro12 is something different and it opens a different landscape for the players and coaches. It would also be a new experience if you play against teams in different conditions and in different countries over a new time period. So it would be a huge challenge, but an excellent chance to familiarise yourself with the type of rugby played in the northern hemisphere. In my opinion, it will mean a lot to South African rugby and the players because they will get used to different conditions. For their exposure and building their careers, it will mean a lot. The Kings still have three Super Rugby matches left to play and Davids said he was totally focused on the clashes against the Jaguares, Bulls and Cheetahs. I am only focused on Super Rugby and I have not had any discussions about the future. There have been some informal discussions, but nothing formal about the road forward, Davids said. We will have to look at the situation and what is planned for the future and changes that you would have to bear in mind. Of the group of players we have now, there are not going to be many left. That alone will be a big challenge. If the competition [Pro 12] begins now in September, there will be a lot of work to do. I do not know how precisely it will be done at this stage and when work can start and what the impact will be on the Currie Cup. That is all the stuff we need more information on as soon as possible to iron things out, Davids said. As part of the commemoration of Youth Day, the Kings, together with the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro, hosted a coaching clinic at Brandwag High School yesterday. It is always great to be able to make some contribution in giving back to the community that backs you and offers their support through good and trying times, Davids said. Meanwhile, the EP Rugby Union announced that EP U19 and U21 trials would be held at Londt Park today. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share