Who says fashion is only for skinny girls? This weekend larger models put their stamp on the ramp at Bay Fashion Sunday at the Roof Garden Bar, stepping out alongside their leaner sisters in garments by Port Elizabeth designers. And that s just how Lwethu Tenge, the head of model management and training for Nelson Mandela Bay Fashion Week (NMBFW), wants it particularly after being flooded with applicants to model in the fashion events. Being a model is very broad: the typical model is tall, skinny and graceful but iIf you have that something on the runway, any garment can look great on anyone, she said. It is all about how you carry it with confidence! Ivana Leigh Japhta and Chanique Michillies were two of the plus-size models on Sunday and there are other applicants lined up for auditions ahead of October&#8217;s second NMBFW. Tenge said Bay designers hoping to showcase at NMBFW generally did dress a range of body shapes. It s very difficult for bigger models to find their sizes and they often end up going to independent designers. because the chain stores don t always cater to them. Our Baying Fashion Sunday designers have been catering for different shapes, and we also showcase designers who aren t in store, Tenge said. Ergo Zen: fashion for all shapes Pictures: Gillian McAinsh Ergo Zen s goddess dresses, for example, are draped in jersey knit to fit all sizes while Marenda Speelman used tan suedette for one-size-fits-all capes. Marenda Speelman&#8217;s range include versatile capes Pictures: Gillian McAinsh Tenge said when she first called for models, she was surprised by the demand from wannabe hot-steppers. It was ridiculous! It seemed like every second I went into my inbox, I got more and more. Algene Koeberg showed her Culture Cut range at Bay Fashion Sunday Picture: Gillian McAinsh She said she sifted through hundreds of e-mails before narrowing down a casting field. After the initial round, she sifted once more to see who would work as a ramp model. Christopher Tom by Mahlubandile Tom Pictures: Gillian McAinsh It s very lovely to watch them grow. In the beginning they were so nervous but everyone can model. Now they can showcase their talents. In fact, come to think of it, who says they have to be young either? Bay Fashion Sunday MC Toni Williams called up five volunteers from the crowd to try their luck on the catwalk and the mother of one of the models took top prize. Port Elizabeth advocate Wabo Msizi, 56, whose daughter Phiwe was modelling in the show, was one of the first to spring up and wowed the crowds with her poise. She won a Smashbox voucher from Woolworths for her sexy strut. I loved that woman, she brought confidence! said Tenge. I was in the crowd screaming for her, she was amazing and the more she walked the more confident she got! Christopher Tom by Mahlubandile Tom Pictures: Gillian McAinsh &nbsp; Algene Koeberg&#8217;s Culture Cut Pictures: Gillian McAinsh Ergo Zen by Nozuko Ngcizela Pictures: Gillian McAinsh Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share