STEPPING UP: Preparing for the annual Humewood Pro-Am are, from left, Darryl Nortje and Juan Taljaard from Hannah s Arms, Market Square VW Uitenhage sales executive Johan de Jager and Humewood head professional Brendon Timm Picture: VUYOKAZI NKANJENI The 10th annual Humewood Pro-Am will look to raise about R40 000 for charity when this year s event swings into action at the Humewood Golf Club on Sunday. The two-day event, which finishes at Wedgewood on Monday, now has Market Square Volkswagen Uitenhage as sponsor and Humewood head professional Brendon Timm is convinced it will draw big names in golf and also encourage more businesses to play. This year s field features 25 PGA professionals and 75 amateur golfers from around the country. With R30 000 up for grabs over the two days, the pros will gear up to take on the world s 96th-ranked course and only true links course in Africa on day one before testing themselves around the newly developed Wedgewood layout. All proceeds will be donated to Hannah s Arms, an organisation that rescues abandoned and neglected babies. We have been running pro-ams for 10 years now and have raised more than R250 000 for charity, Timm said. This year we would like to reach at least R40 000 for the charity. We have two days to try to raise as much money as we can for the babies and toddlers. We like to support the smaller charities in town. Hannah s Arms is in desperate need of funding. What we have to do is to raise as much capital as possible, so they can survive and these children can be looked after. Market Square VW Uitenhage s Johan de Jager said as a dealership that supplies the community, their aim was to uplift and support by giving back. Hannah s Arms board member Darryl Nortje thanked both golf clubs and Market Square Volkswagen for the support. You won t believe what a difference this will make in the lives of the innocent little babies that are abandoned and neglected and, in a nutshell, are left to fend for themselves, he said. Timm has asked the public to support the event. For more information or to enter, e-mail bookings@humewoodgolf.co.za or contact (041) 583-3011. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share