STAR PERFORMERS: The winners of the BWA Investec Regional Business Achievers Awards are, from left, Nozibele Qamngana, of the Ubuntu Education Fund; Kelly Ferreira, of Khula Kids Playschool &amp; Homework House; Nomhle Chinese Tys, of Royal HaskoningDHV (Pty) Ltd; Annette Lovemore, of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality; Riana Ferreira, of Collect-a-Debt, and Cindy Jonker, of Goldberg &amp; De Villiers Picture: Supplied The annual Business Women s Association s Investec regional Business Achievers Awards were hosted at the Boardwalk International Convention Centre last night, with the event s glamour only outweighed by the women in attendance. An evening of fancy food and glitsy gowns culminated in recognition for six women in their respective categories who have achieved noteworthy milestones in their careers and business. Selected from a pool of 16 formidable finalists, this year s category winners were Nomhle Chinese Tys, from Royal HaskoningDHV (Pty) Ltd, in the corporate category, Kelly Ferreira, from Khula Kids Playschool &amp; Homework House, for emerging entrepreneur and Riana Ferreira, of Collect-a-Debt, in the entrepreneur category. Cindy Jonker, from Goldberg &amp; De Villiers Attorneys, won the professional category, Nozibele Qamngana, from the Ubuntu Education Fund, took the social entrepreneur category and Annette Lovemore, from the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, won in the government category. BWA Port Elizabeth chairwoman Michelle Brown said the calibre of this year s winners was outstanding. These awards continue to inspire me, particularly when you hear the amazing stories of determination and grit behind the successes of our finalists and winners. The awards offer a journey of personal growth and recognition to the winners, as well as incredible friendships and bonds formed among the finalists that last for years to come, Brown said. Investec Eastern Cape regional manager Jacky Buys said the company was proud to be the title sponsor and would like to congratulate the winners in each category on their success. The Business Women s Association is by far the most influential association of business and professional women in South Africa. It certainly has provided us with numerous role models for young women starting out in business or professional life, Buys said. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share