Robert Matsabisi asks about future plans for the development of Wells Estate Picture: Eugene Coetzee Hours after some Wells Estate residents complained that their cries for land to erect their shacks had been ignored by Nelson Mandela Bay mayor, Athol Trollip received a warm, peaceful reception in the area last night. Wells Estate, known for its volatile protests, hosted a public participation meeting last night to discuss the municipality s budget and Integrated Development Plan at the community hall. The residents used the opportunity to question Trollip about community concerns such as housing, and business opportunities for small, medium and micro enterprises in the area. But a resident, who only identified himself as Andile, questioned Trollip about his opening remarks about one of the IDP pillars, that of building a caring city. Andile asked if his words were not contradicted by the issue of land evictions and people s building material that was still with the sheriff of the court. In response, Trollip said the metro did nothing uncaring as there had been no evictions but rather the removal of illegally built structures. He said he had mandated human settlements political head Nqaba Bhanga to deal with housing matters. Speaking after the meeting, Trollip said: I am pleased that question came up and the people were nodding in understanding. He refused to comment on a visit to the area earlier in the day by deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani. Resident Thando Kebengana said he lived in an area that was using septic tanks for sanitation. He said the tanks were collected weekly but at times became flooded, particularly on rainy days. Trollip said the priority of the municipality was to eradicate the bucket toilet system and that the metro would attend to the matter of those using septic tanks. Resident Sam Zongezile asked: What are the plans with regards to cleaning up Wells Estate? Trollip said the metro was busy setting up small cooperatives in each ward that would be responsible for cleaning.