Andrew Whitfield says the Bay s new leaders are geared for growth Picture: Eugene Coetzee Most Nelson Mandela Bay residents cannot afford to pay rates and the burden for those who can is incredibly high, according to Andrew Whitfield, the city s political head of economic development, tourism and agriculture. Whitfield was speaking at an Integrated Development Programme meeting for wards 1, 2, 3 and 5 at the Port Elizabeth City Hall yesterday. The more people depend on the state, the harder it becomes for those who can afford [to pay] and it is unsustainable for us to continue in that direction, he said. Although South Africa was in a recession, the metro was putting the correct measures in place to turn the situation around. The only way [to do] that is by building confidence in the investment environment, in order to attract investment that can grow the economy and create jobs, he said. Good governance was the key ingredient to attracting investors. He said the metro was well positioned to take advantage of tourism, attracting foreign tourists whose spending rates increased. Ward 1 resident Gayle Pullen complained about problems with students who were causing noise disturbances in the neighbourhood and throwing liquor bottles everywhere. She asked about the finalisation of student residence bylaws. Mayoral committee member John Best said bylaws were being prepared and would still undergo public participation. Another resident from the same ward, Lumko Jali, asked for the intervention of metro police in petty crimes in which students were targeted for their cellphones and laptops. Best said he was discussing the matter with student representatives. He also discussed the budget that had been set aside for services in various wards. An amount of R500 000 had been set aside for lighting in Ward 1, R1-million for the upgrade of the electricity station at Summerstrand and R1.7-million for the rehabilitation of water reservoirs. We have stopped pumping water at Churchill Dam as of last Monday, he said. Some residents complained about traffic issues such as a lack of properly constructed bus stops which was causing traffic jams and the taxis that were everywhere, and others called for speed bumps.