Become a food detective and go sleuthing around a few supermarket shelves in Port Elizabeth to pick up clues for wise shopping and healthy eating, with Bay MD Dr Margo de Kooker who specialises in wellness and functional medicine. You have made the decision to change your lifestyle for the better . . . but what do you buy in the supermarkets? she asks. Do you find shopping for healthy food options a challenge, and are you accidentally making mistakes that are derailing your healthy intentions? Join De Kooker for a health-focused walkabout through food stores to inspect the produce, interrogate the foods on the shelves, look at labels, and learn a lot about eating for optimal energy, as well as learning what to ask for at the stores. There are also some hidden gems in the stores, so let s look at the healthy choices that are out there, as well as uncover the health frauds, says De Kooker, who believes it is important to become a conscious consumer in a confusing market place. With that in mind, the tour will offer help in deciphering the labels on food and working out which are health choices and which are not. Subjects covered are likely to include: Reading labels, including which ingredients to avoid; Grocery shopping for people with allergies and food sensitivities; Choosing healthy snacks; Healthy meal preparation; Natural and artificial sweeteners (the good, the bad and the ugly); Which foods to gravitate toward and which foods to steer clear of. The tour dates are on Monday and Tuesday, August 28 and 29 at Walmer supermarkets SPAR and Checkers and on Thursday, September 7, at Woolworths in Buffelsfontein Road. Each one-hour tour starts at 10am and numbers are limited to six per tour. The cost is R200, which includes coffee or tea and a closing discussion. I m happy to join you when you do your shopping, answer any of your questions and give you my tips and suggestions for choosing healthy foods. If you would like to schedule a private tour [you can bring a friend at no additional cost] I will address your particular questions, location and needs. Further information from De Kooker at one@imaginet.co.za or 082-9269-742. &nbsp;