Murder accused Christopher Panayiotou File picture: Eugene Coetzee Top justice official says R35 850 seized is proceeds of unlawful activities The money Port Elizabeth murder accused Christopher Panayiotou allegedly paid to take out a hit on his wife has been finally forfeited to the state. The Port Elizabeth High Court ordered the Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU) to serve a copy of yesterday s ruling on Panayiotou, 30, who is behind bars, and self-confessed middleman Luthando Siyoni, 36, before transferring the cash into the criminal assets recovery account. A total amount of R35 850 was seized by the AFU following the arrests of Panayiotou, Siyoni and alleged hitman Sizwezakhe Vumazonke. Panayiotou s wife, Uitenhage teacher, Jayde, 29, was kidnapped and shot dead in April 2015. While the criminal trial is still ongoing, a conviction is not required for a forfeiture order in terms of the Criminal Procedure Act. Yesterday s order is also open to appeal by both Panayiotou and Siyoni. Deputy director of public prosecutions Dr Nkululeko Ndzengu said in an affidavit that the money constituted the proceeds of unlawful activities, and in this case, murder. The [money] was used to hire a hitman and enable the accomplice witness, Siyoni, to disappear, Ndzengu said. Siyoni clearly states that he received the money from Panayiotou. In this way and when it was in Siyoni s hands, the property represented the proceeds of unlawful activities. When police arrested Siyoni, who turned state witness later, they confiscated R31 300 in cash. At the time, Siyoni claimed this was his cut of the R80 000 Panayiotou allegedly paid him to organise the hitmen. He said the remaining cash was paid over to the now-deceased Vumazonke. Siyoni has since recanted his confession and claims police beat him up and forced him to implicate his former boss. It is further alleged that Panayiotou then paid Siyoni R4 550 during a sting operation in which he seemingly implicated himself in his wife s murder. While Siyoni has since deviated from what he had told police on his arrest, he still stood by the fact that he had received R80 000 from Panayiotou, Ndzengu said in his affidavit. Siyoni was a lowly paid employee of Panayiotou s [a bouncer at his Algoa Park Infinity Cocktail Bar] and the only conceivable reason for his former boss to give him this amount of money was clearly to effect the hit on his wife. It is abundantly clear [Panayiotou] was involved in a conspiracy to murder his wife. The criminal trial proceeds in the Port Elizabeth High Court on September 26.