Contrite school head admits to administering hidings to pupils out of sheer frustration A Port Elizabeth high school principal has admitted whacking at least three matric pupils out of frustration, after a video of the incidents surfaced. Kwamagxaki High School principal Mwezi Qomfo apologised profusely yesterday after being shown the cellphone recording, made by another pupil, of him whacking three boys several times on their hands with a thin plastic pipe. The 60-year-old, who has been the principal since 1998, said it was not common practice to use corporal punishment on the pupils. But he had been frustrated by the failure of the boys in the video to attend the school s winter holiday school programme, leading to his actions. In the 42-second video taken between July 24 and 31, Qomfo is seen pointing the plastic pipe at one boy and calling him to the front of the class, where he is made to extend his right hand and given seven whacks. The pupil turns for a moment but is then called back to receive a last whack on his left hand. Qomfo then looks at a list and calls a second pupil, who pulls his hand away twice, before being hit by the principal on the third attempt. The boy is followed by another, who receives five whacks on his right hand before the video ends. However, while the Abolition of Corporal Punishment Act of 1997 prohibits any form of corporal punishment at schools, several parents and pupils at the school said they were not opposed to it. Qomfo said: We were having winter school during the June-July holiday, and a lot of these [matric] pupils failed to attend a single class in the two-week programme. These teachers are giving up their holiday and, ironically, it is the pupils who need the assistance who aren t attending. If these children don t attend these programmes, there is no chance of them passing their exams. When we returned to school for the third term, I received the register with absentees. Qomfo said while it was not compulsory for the 178 matrics to attend winter school, the school had appealed to the pupils at the end of the June exams to attend the classes. He said only a few of the pupils who had failed to attend the programme had been given hidings, while in the case of the rest who had failed to attend, their parents were called in to address their negative academic results. The teachers are trying their level best to improve the standard of learning and outcomes for these pupils and they fail to see that, so it is not just that I wanted to hit them. We are trying our best, but they [pupils] are not responding and I gave them a hiding outof frustration. I am so sorry about that. The aim was not to just hit the pupils but to teach them the importance of valuing their education. Parents and pupils at the school said it was not uncommon for the pupils to be whacked, but it was usually with the parents knowledge and acceptance. One pupil s mother, Sheronica Booi, said: These children don t listen when you just talk to them. They need to get a beating, it is the only the way they listen. I know the principal and some of the teachers give the kids hidings, but I won t stop them because it teaches these children discipline and that is something that is lacking in a lot of township schools. Michael Tisi, the father of another pupil, said a hiding has never killed anyone . He said: The children in this township are facing daily problems of drug and alcohol abuse. How else are these teachers supposed to deal with them? You can t talk to them because they don t listen. But the next time they want to be naughty, they will remember the pain of that beating and it will hopefully stop them. A Grade 11 pupil at the school, who declined to be named, said: Not all of the teachers do, but a lot of them give us beatings for coming late, not doing homework, being disruptive in class and so on. My parents know I get disciplined at school. I don t have a problem with it, but I think they should find another way to discipline us. Over the past three years, the school has produced varied matric pass rate results, with a 68.4% pass rate in 2014, 56.2% in 2015, and a sharp increase last year to 83.8%. The Abolition of Corporal Punishment Act followed the Constitutional Court s 1995 decision in the case of S v Williams and Others that caning of juveniles was unconstitutional. Education expert Professor Susan van Rensburg said schools needed to find innovative ways of punishing children. There are laws governing corporal punishment, she said. Teachers can t say the pupils come from a culture of being beaten in order for them to change, when they are reverting back to the old way of doing things to create change. If nothing changes, how do you expect the children to. There needs to be positive punishment for instance, they can take away one of their privileges or, like I used to do, give the children no homework on Fridays if they behave during the week, etc. But beating children is out of the question. Education department spokesman Malibongwe Mtima said: The district director has informed me that a special team will be sent to the school [today] to launch a full investigation into the matter. And the educator and pupils will have to give their account of the events. Since schools reopened in July, we have received four videos illustrating corporal punishment in the province. Three are from the Transkei area and now this one. 