Patrice Motsepe after pledging some of his wealth towards philanthropy Picture: James Oatway African Rainbow Capital (ARC), the investment company mining magnate Patrice Motsepe launched last year, will list some of its assets on the main board of the JSE next month, raising about R4-billion in the process. Through a vehicle called ARC Investments, the company will list nearly half of its financial services interests, which will include stakes in retirement administrator Alexander Forbes, short-term insurer Santam and fledgling stock exchange A2X. ARC will also list all of its non-financial services interests, which include investments in telecommunications and agriculture. ARC Investment s directors have placed the value of this portfolio at R4.5-billion. The universe for attractive empowerment transactions is vast and is not limited to a certain sector or size, ARC s joint chief executive, Johan van der Merwe, said. To increase the scope of our potential transactions [in diversity and size], we believe it makes sense to stretch our investment reach by accessing the capital markets. Of the R4-billion targeted from the listing, R1.9-billion will be raised from a private placing of the shares with selected investors, while the Public Investment Corporation, Sanlam Private Wealth and the government of Singapore s GIC Private Limited sovereign wealth fund have pledged another R2.1-billion acting as cornerstone investors. ARC plans to use the proceeds of the listing for other investment opportunities, and to fund the balance of the price tag for Multisource Telecoms (Rain), its most significant investment. Rain is a mobile network operator focused on data services, and holds the only licence in the 2 600 megahertz band. Rain has made significant progress in building a dedicated national LTE advanced network, which is live and carrying commercial traffic, ARC said. This infrastructure will eventually facilitate an environment where open access to the internet becomes a reality in South Africa. 