Inside the spacious conference venue in Muldersdrift, the spirit moved. This week was, after all, the annual conference of Ntataise, the famous early childhood education organisation started by a progressive farmer and his wife, Anthony and Jane Evans, in rural Viljoenskroon in the Free State. The venue was packed with leaders in early childhood education. Somebody started to sing uplifting songs. Women rose from their seats and formed a moving snake chain as they sang in preparation for the word. Everybody greeted by hugging each other. Whoops of joy with the reunion of older hands. I felt I was in a charismatic church. Except this was ECD (early childhood development), a sector that touches tens of thousands of pre-school children daily throughout the nine provinces and prepares young black children for formal schooling. Ntataise (meaning to lead a young child by the hand ) has itself reached half a million children, but its real achievement is taking women whose families work on farms and turning them into teachers and leaders in ECD. The first time I met Puleng Motsoeneng, she was a shy, reticent woman in conservative Viljoenskroon, where I remember the rightwing AWB surrounding the town in protest against the coming democracy in South Africa. Now, the well-travelled Motsoeneng, who has represented ECD and South Africa overseas, takes to the podium with grace and authority, and my heart swells with pride. Jane Evans had quietly handed over the running of the organisation to mainly black women who now lead in the field. This, I said to myself, is transformation. Anthony Evans, the Rhodes scholar who put up the resources from his Free State farms for this to happen, had recently died. I tell the enthusiastic audience that educational research is notoriously equivocal on almost every aspect of schooling except one that investments in early childhood education produce durable social and learning attainments into grade school, and effectively close the equality gap between middle class and poor children when it comes to a range of educational achievements. The government, despite occasional rhetorical commitments to pre-school education, simply does not have the political will to really implement quality ECD for every child. Hell, it cannot even fix the formal school system. That is why the work of Ntataise and other non-governmental organisations is so crucial for the social well-being and educational futures of millions of children. On the other side of the country, Nozibele Qhamngana is a force of nature. The beautiful young woman could be a student on any Ivy League campus anywhere in the world. But she is in Zwide township, Port Elizabeth, changing the lives of pre-school children and their parents. The Ubuntu Centre, all of 2 323m , is inside one of the most impressive education buildings you will find anywhere, and has won architectural awards in both the US and South Africa. Originally started for orphan and vulnerable children, the centre now offers a comprehensive package of services to the community, a veritable one-stop-shop for health, education and development. A journalist once asked, Why do you need such a top quality building in a township? Because black children deserve no less quality than any other child in South Africa, came the appropriate response. Inside one of the spacious and beautifully decorated classrooms, small children sat against a parent or grandparent playing educational games and singing familiar songs. This was a preparatory class for those who will enrol in this famous centre that former US president Bill Clinton and other celebrities once visited. I watched through the glass window as the parents and grandparents interacted with the still hesitant children and as the preschool teachers made the families comfortable in this bright new space. I once sat on that floor as a child, Nozibele whispered. On the walls were striking aspirational photographs of children from this centre wearing the uniforms that come with the careers they desired to follow firemen, nurses, photographers and doctors. Ubuntu was a vital oasis in a poor township community. Then it struck me. There is a parallel education universe in South Africa. What the government provides for poor children and what hundreds of NGOs, large and small, provide a daily to struggling communities. If I was wealthy, and a betting man, this is where I would put my investments in the other education system populated by the Zwides and the Ntataises. For one simple reason: they provide the quality of early education that makes a difference over time. I would then pull all the donors into one room and ask the next question: how do we take this to scale? Forget the parliamentary performances with other people s money, these organisations are where I put my vote of confidence in the future of South Africa.