Eastern Cape Social Development MEC Nancy Sihlwayi Picture: Brian Witbooi The much publicised incidents of public figures unleashing viciousness on helpless women, with one bashing happening at some posh drinking hole have all brought home the level of hostility that most women still endure at the hands of men. The metaphor in these reprehensible acts, perhaps, has unwittingly assisted society to put a face and character on the nature of violence that most women still endure. But what it does mostly, is to unmask the veneer that even those in tailored suits are capable of sadism. History is sprinkled with abominable incidences of rage meted out against women, especially unassuming and silent rural women whose stories have never made it to YouTube. Recently we went through the usual temporary shock when the Willowvale police arrested a man for murdering his wife. She had been beaten with a stick in the early hours of the morning for not cooking chicken livers. Although the incident sent shock waves across the Eastern Cape, there were still many who viewed it as perhaps another comical episode in a tedious movie that has become the absurdity of repression against women. That a court of law even sentenced the perpetrator to a mere eight years in prison for killing his wife in a rage over a spurious reason, is further representative of the larger societal deficiency. The truth is that women are still the beating drums of callous men. But men in holding senior public positions should know better. In the theatre of public opinion, perception is revered. The seeming slow action on the Mduduzi Manana women-bashing act/s, is probably another blot on the efforts to emancipate women. In hindsight, it is a missed opportunity. To rub further irritation in the public consciousness, the bellicose rhetoric that has followed this unfortunate incident has not assisted at all. Unfortunately, the dangerous posturing has rather weakened most of the strides we have accumulated over the past years. It undermines the credibility of whatever efforts we still seek to engender as government to quell gender-based violence. It is not too late to salvage the ambiguity on these matters. But obviously, this will require a massive shift in our functioning and behaviour. In the Eastern Cape for instance, in this Women s Month, our stance is on investing in strategies and programmes to ensure that the boy-child is not caught into a belief that it is cool to smash a woman. This belief starts at home. The boy-child has to be brought up with an ingrained understanding of gender equality in the home environment. There is profoundness in affording boys an opportunity to make life choices that lead to their improved skills in relating to women and girls through planned positive interaction and increased community participation. This programme was developed in response to the increased rate of violence against girls. The recent brutal schoolgirl assault video that went viral on social media at KwaZulu-Natal s Siyathuthuka High School in Inanda, is a case in point. But our work with a boy-child is sometimes complicated further with a new dimension that is slowly taking root in our society. Studies show that the boy-child s behavioural patterns twist even further on boys who grow up without fathers. No boy chooses to grow up without a dad, yet millions do. These boys are far more likely to be delinquent, abuse drugs or go to prison than boys with fathers. As we commemorate our provincial Women s Day later this month at Lusikisiki, we must resolve that we cannot afford to be ambiguous in action or lack thereof against gender-based violence. If we don t show the courage now, our battle on gender-based violence is likely to collapse under the weight of our own contradictions. Sihlwayi is the Social Development MEC