Some of the guest speakers, from left, Zemvelo Ndaba, Tumi Flusk and Nadia Domingo, will tackle topics that affect women at a Women s Day brunch organised by Sesethu Gqomo, right Port Elizabeth women are in for a treat on their special day as Bay entrepreneur Sesethu Gqomo hosts a Women s Day empowerment brunch in New Brighton next Wednesday from 10am to 1pm. Mbokodo Rise talk(s), a name derived from the saying Wathint abafazi, wathint imbokodo (you strike a woman, you strike a rock), is the first of what Gqomo hopes will be annual Women s Day talk that aims to empower and motivate professional/working women from the township to strive for greatness in different aspects of their lives. With this event we re encouraging women to come out from hiding and celebrate their strength. The event, which will be held at chef Vuyokazi Duze s Caf Rizo restaurant, will include talks on beauty and skin care, financial security, love and relationships, as well as being a woman in the 21st century. Taking this kind of event to the township is a way of debunking the myth that if an event is in the township then it s of a substandard, she said. Gqomo said holding the event at Caf Rizo would also be another way of boosting the economy of the township. The talks will be shared by experts in all four fields. Beauty and hair care specialist Zemvelo Ndaba will cover beauty connotations and myths, while NMU media and communications lecturer Dr Adelina Mbinjama will address what it means to be a woman in the 21st century. Financial adviser Nadia Domingo will speak on the importance of financial security and Bay TV producer and talk show host Tumi Flusk on relationships. Gqomo said covering various topics at the brunch was inspired by her own experience of women s talks usually only focusing on limited topics. The event will be a 100% local, good quality event for women, by women. Tickets for the event, which will run from 10am to 1pm, are R100 and can be purchased from Caf Rizo or by contacting Gqomo on 074-754-0960 or Duze on 076-430-5400. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share