Themba Ximiya, 41, a facilitator at the Good News Community Church in Kwazakhele, where a group of job seekers was robbed yesterday Picture: Werner Hills Four gunmen strike at workshop and steal from unemployed group, pastor A brazen broad daylight robbery yesterday morning saw four armed men rob job seekers of their personal belongings while attending a workshop at a church in Kwazakhele. At least 20 unemployed people including the leader of the Good News Community Church, pastor Afrika Mhlophe, were robbed of their cellphones, money and other valuables, including Mhlophe s silver VW Polo. Mhlophe said that at about 9.30am he had arrived at the church in Stofile Street and had noticed four men in their 20s or 30s standing on a street corner nearby. I didn t think anything of it as there were job seekers being trained in one of the function rooms at the church. One of them came to- wards the vehicle while the others went to the building. I didn t think anything wrong with young men coming to the church, he said. Mhlophe said once in the church he had gone back to his car to fetch his diary, when one of the men approached him and told him to go back into the church. I said why should I go in, he then produced a revolver and cocked it and told me to go inside, he said. When he went back into the church, everyone had already been lying on the floor while the three other gun- men collected cellphones and valuables from them, Mhlophe said. I joined them on the floor, they took my wallet and de- manded the car keys, he said.One gunman told him not to worry as they would leave the car somewhere and he would get it back. I am just so grateful that everyone was so calm. It was a mixed group of people from different backgrounds, I didn t know how they would react. I m grateful that none of us panicked as we had guns to our heads while they searched us for valuables. A facilitator of the skillsdevelopment programme, Themba Ximiya, 41, said he had just given the class a task to do when he heard a gun being cocked outside, before the three gunmen entered the building. One of the guys told us to lie down on the floor. They took cellphones, wallets, money and a bag where they put everything in, he said. They demanded laptops and computers but we told them there weren t any so they took the pastor s car. Ximiya said he had had an uncomfortable feeling during the ordeal and had prayed no one would get hurt. Mhlophe said after he returned from reporting the matter to the police, the members of the job seekers class had said they wanted to continue with their class. It s a vile act that leaves you numb on the inside, he said. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said last night he was unable to confirm if a case had been opened.