Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip (right) and Mongameli Bobani (middle) Picture: Brian Witbooi Opposition complains move to sack Bobani underhanded Opposition parties were blindsided by the DA and its coalition partners yesterday after they rammed through a vote to remove Mongameli Bobani as Nelson Mandela Bay deputy mayor while their opponents who had tried to collapse the meeting were still shuffling out of the council chamber. The move has prompted UDM president Bantu Holomisa to issue an ultimatum to the DA reinstate Bobani by Monday or his party will pull out of the coalition. The UDM is in partnership with the DA to also help govern the City of Johannesburg. In a letter sent to the national leaders of the ACDP, COPE, DA and FF Plus last night, Holomisa said: Deputy mayor Bobani was irregularly removed from his post. In light of the DA s stance, we have no option but to inform you that the decision of the UDM s [national executive committee] must be put into immediate effect. In other words, if Bobani is not reinstated to his position by the 28th of August, the UDM will pull out. The motion to remove Bobani was tabled yesterday by Patriotic Alliance (PA) councillor Marlon Daniels, who described Bobani s behaviour as erratic in recent months and causing instability in the metro. The motion was supported by the DA s Nqaba Bhanga. It follows months of tension between Bobani and mayor Athol Trollip, who have been at loggerheads over how the metro should be governed. Daniels and his party principals have demanded the deputy mayor position from Trollip as well as the post of political head of safety and security, held at present by the DA s John Best, after signing a co-governance agreement with the DA recently. But the DA refused to say yesterday if it would accede to the PA s demands, saying it would communicate its decision later. Meanwhile, the opposition ANC, EFF and AIC with the UDM, had tried to collapse the council meeting by packing up their belongings and refusing to support Bobani s removal. They had hoped that by walking out they would leave the DA, ACDP, COPE and PA without the numbers needed to make up a 61-member quorum but they did not walk out of the door fast enough. While they danced and sang and slowly shuffled out of the chamber, the coalition members hastily pushed ahead with voting and garnered 60 votes in favour of booting out Bobani. There are a total of 120 seats in the council and to hold a council meeting, at least 61 members have to be present to make up a quorum. According to city manager Johann Mettler, and the council secretariat presiding over the meeting, there were more than 61 councillors physically in the house when the votes were tallied and an outcome was declared. Mettler said they would have to view video footage to give an exact figure of how many councillors there were in the room, although he was confident that they definitely had a quorum. When the voting concluded, the meeting still had a quorum because there were more than 61 councillors inside the chamber, including those who were standing and walking out, he said. The majority here is a simple majority in terms of those present and those voting. It s now a matter of record everything was above board. Only council items involving budgets, bylaws and other finance-related matters require an outright majority, which is 61 votes. The ANC, EFF and UDM are not taking the decision lying down, saying speaker Jonathan Lawack should not have allowed the voting to continue as he could not regard the councillors walking out of the chamber as being present. They said the ruling was illegal and un This derhanded. ANC caucus leader Bicks Ndoni said: You don t count a quorum while people are moving in and out. If people are going out, the speaker has to settle everyone and then count. You can t count while people are standing up. That s not how you run a council. He said they would seek legal advice. It s a criminal thing that they ve done. EFF councillor Zilindile Vena said the ruling was illegal. is arrogance. Once arrogance blinds you, you will formulate everything just to push your own narrow agenda. Trollip must watch out because, next time, his head will roll. Bobani said he would not accept the decision. I m still the deputy mayor. That s a kangaroo council. As far as the UDM is concerned, that motion was not carried because there was no quorum. We are still in governance but you can see that they are determined to get the UDM out and get into bed with the Patriotic Alliance. But the DA, COPE, ACDP and PA were elated at the outcome. Bhanga, speaking on behalf of the DA, said: We are very happy that we have followed due processes and have been able to outvote the deputy mayor and have the motion passed. Our people are going to be very happy about what happened here today [yesterday]. There s going to be true, stable governance and we are very excited that we have taken firm decisions as partners going forward. Asked how they planned to hold council meetings should the opposition parties choose to boycott future sittings as the coalition only held 60 seats without the UDM s support, Bhanga said: We will take every meeting as it comes, we are confident. There are good South Africans and councillors who understand what is important. Earlier in the day, the coalition battled to push through agenda items involving budget amendments as they did not have the 61 seats required. These included a recommendation to take R13-million from the budgets meant for fixing roads in wards to upgrade parts of the route for the Ironman 70.3 World Championships next year. The DA had no choice but to withdraw the item for further discussion with the opposition as they only had the support of 60 councillors instead of 61. ACDP councillor Lance Grootboom, who said he had the backing of his national bosses who had indicated earlier that they would not support the bid to remove Bobani because they were not consulted, said the motion was in the interests of the people of the metro. He said Bobani had continuously blocked the coalition and created instability in the city. COPE s Siyasanga Sijadu said the past eight months had been difficult. She said it was clear Bobani did not have the best interests of the metro at heart. I believe that the decision taken today was the correct decision. IN 1994, the government promised to redress the inequalities of the past in all spheres of life, particularly in politics, social conditions and economics. Stats SA announced this week in its poverty trends reports that 30 million South Africans lived in poverty. In that number, the report shows that black people bear the brunt of poverty. The picture gets uglier when you consider that 13.5 million lived below the poverty line of less than R441 per month in 2015, an intolerable increase since the ANC s Polokwane conference of 2007. The plethora of state policies, strategies and intervention programmes have not managed to overcome economic and entrenched racial inequalities. Racial and gender inequalities in the distribution of and access to wealth, income, skills and employment are still persisting. All of this ugly state of affairs is contained in Stats SA s latest poverty trends report. In the first 10 years of democracy, the economy showed consistent growth due to some structural changes in the economy and macro-economic stabilisation policies. At that time the critics were arguing that we were just experiencing jobless growth. Hopes and prospects of employment and economic empowerment were high. This picture has turned for the worse since 2009 (the year that Jacob Zuma became president). Since then economic participation by ordinary blacks in the mainstream economy has nose-dived dramatically. The setback on black economic empowerment happens in the midst of intensive political rhetoric from the rulers. In an unprecedented frequency, they crafted, juggled, amended and formulated a lot of well-intended but ill-defined, highly complex and unworkable schemes. In the early days the democratic government set up a broad programme that facilitated a legislative framework for the transformation of South Africa&#8217;s economy. Hence by 2003, the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) Act was published. The objective of the act was to advance economic transformation and to enhance the economic participation of black people in the South African economy. The 2007 B-BBEE Codes of Good Practice were created as an implementation framework for legislation. Their role was the implementation of the mechanism of monitoring and the evaluation of B-BBEE compliance. The minister of trade and industry was well equipped to issue Codes of Good Practice through the legislation of the B-BBEE Advisory Council. It boggles one s mind to see how a government that has so well articulated its policy objectives and key principles, with instruments to achieve those objectives, ends up with close to nothing tangible to show in practical terms. Some of the policies tend to be so complex to the extent that they actually defeat the very intended purpose, by becoming stumbling blocks to progress. The government s balanced scorecard is so complicated, to the extent that those who are meant to be empowered have to employ the services of the myriad consulting firms that have mushroomed and benefited handsomely from the government s own blunders. Ironically most of these agencies that operate in this space are white-owned companies. Their existence becomes an added burden to the ever-rising start-up costs for the aspiring entrepreneurs. Budding and aspiring black entrepreneurs find themselves between a rock and a hard place, particularly those who are at the entry point, that is small to medium scale. Black business people in general, and Africans in particular, have been left vulnerable in the cut-throat world of dog eat dog that is South Africa s private and public sectors. While we have been losing focus as a result of the Guptas sideshow, poverty, inequality and all other social hardships within the black community have got worse. The post-Polokwane situation is dire. Those nominal gains achieved at the time when a significant section of white business people were buying into the empowerment imperative have regressed as they have dropped their commitment to this programme. Ownership of black people in the mainstream economy has fallen to near non-existent levels of the pre-democracy era. I am deliberately ignoring the allegedly concocted and inflated JSE black ownership figures. That is a subject for another day. Most of our energies in recent times have been focused on the obscene looting of national resources and state capture. In the meantime, real economic empowerment is eluding black people as they are being ignored and neglected by the very government that was installed on their behalf to oversee their economic advancement. Recent statistics showed that more than 50% of civil servants are involved in some form of entrepreneurial activity. Instead of overseeing black economic empowerment, civil servants see government employment as a platform from which to launch themselves into the business world in a corrupt manner. The irony is that while black people are being relegated from economic progress, unscrupulous white business people are taking maximum advantage of the government s incompetence, corruption and policy confusion. Some have literally retreated to their old racist cocoons. This lack of leadership has left the previous beneficiaries enjoying the proceeds of democracy unhindered. Vast racial and gender inequalities in the distribution of and access to wealth, income, skills and employment persist. The architects of black empowerment envisaged that South Africa s economic growth and wealth distribution were a possibility. Their optimism was based on the country s resources and infrastructure. It was envisaged that a relevant standard of education could be available to even those who could not afford private schools. Education was seen as a platform from which people could be skilled so that they could manage their newly acquired assets. Teaching of science and maths, it was argued then, was fundamental to propel economic growth and empowerment. Empowerment in a shrinking economy is going to be a difficult task. However, the government needs to see to it that the little that is available benefits all. Black empowerment needs to be jump-started for the sake of the nation s own political stability. The ongoing apartheid patterns of economic ownership are not going to be sustainable in the light of the scary poverty statistics released this week.