STYLISH CENTRE: Viewing the plans for The 1054 are, from left, DMV Architecture director Neal Fisher, DSL Investments Cameron Harvey, Jeremy Delport, of Jeremy Delport Construction, and DMV Architecture director Dal Vanables Picture: Supplied The commercial growth of Walmer s Main Road is gathering pace, with the building of a R20million office and retail development set to modernise the rapidly expanding business node. Uniquely named after its erf number, The 1054 is a 2 800m stand-alone development between 12th and 13th Avenue which will boast 1 700m of stylish office and retail space when construction is completed in February. In Main Road, where commercial activities have expanded largely in renovated and converted existing properties, The 1054 represents the latest commercial push towards the Walmer Park Shopping Centre and its bordering William Moffett Expressway business node. The centre is already under construction by DSL Investments in partnership with Jeremy Delport Construction to effect the project. Modern, with striking black and yellow paintwork and an eye-catching facade, the boxshaped centre was designed by DMV Architecture. The architects will relocate from their Baakens Valley premises to the centre when it is completed. We opted to go for a purpose-built, landmark new building, designed with the vision of being a creative hub and destination which all its tenants will feed off, DSL Investments Cameron Harvey said. The development will include features such as a large, fully paved parking area, fully walled with dual access, landscaping elements and dedicated street signage. Harvey said the design was directed at providing a dynamic and professional image for all tenants of the building. Main Road has shown a dramatic rise in business development due to the municipality s Land Spatial Development Framework and we believe it is an ideal location for this new development, he said. The Main Road, Walmer, node is an exciting area in which to establish new developments and we expect the centre will serve as a catalyst for more developments. Harvey said DSL had already secured 80% of its total occupancy ahead of completion. The 1054 tenant mix would compliment surrounding businesses and enhance the already extensive business offerings available on Main Road. DMV director and architect Dal Venables said green methodologies were being used to construct the double-storey-building. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share