Canine Boutique and Pet Deli owner John Vye, right, with new owner Gavin Faulds, of Petman Holdings Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Growth plans for existing five outlets in Bay, Jeffreys A Port Elizabeth couple s family-owned pet supply business which they have built up over seven years into a network of five stores has been bought by a national investment company in a multimillion-rand deal. The deal announced yesterday at the Canine Pet Boutique and Deli s Newton Park distribution warehouse will see Durban-based Petman Holdings become the new owners of the business. John Vye started Canine Pet Boutique and Deli with his wife, Sandra, at the Boardwalk in November 2010. He said it was an exciting time for business in Port Elizabeth and he was happy to be handing over his business to a competent company. This is a big investment into the city [with] an outside investment company coming here to create and continue a family business, Vye said. Over the years, he and his wife had to quickly learn lessons about how to survive in business, but he said the hard work and persistence had paid off. As we got older, we realised the time would come that we would have to sell our business to someone with the necessary knowledge and finance to grow this opportunity, he said. The four Port Elizabeth stores and one Jeffreys Bay outlet which employ 35 people will be under Petman Holdings management from September 1. Petman Holdings managing director Gavin Faulds said the investment in Vye s five stores formed part of a national investment campaign which would see the company acquire several more stores. Although we are from Durban, we see Port Elizabeth as a growth area for pet retail, Faulds said. There were some exciting things planned based on ideas and information gained from numerous trips to the UK, Europe, US and Australia, he said. We are excited about the deal and we are looking forward to taking over a well-managed group of stores with great locations, which will give us a great platform to consider expansion in the region and help us achieve our aims of providing the best pet products, foods and accessories for all pet lovers in Port Elizabeth, Jeffreys Bay and surrounding areas. Faulds said although he and his partners were business people and the business had to make a satisfactory return, their foremost consideration was ensuring proper animal husbandry and welfare was uppermost in their and their customers minds. Pets need love and care and thus competently trained staff in the stores who can provide the appropriate advice to all pet owners, [and] giving great customer service, are very important to us. We are pet lovers first and foremost and our management team will bring more than 100 years of pet industry experience into the business, Faulds said.