Southern Kings head coach Deon Davids Picture: Steve Haag / Gallo Images Physicality and intensity will be watchwords for the Southern Kings when they face Pro14 champions Scarlets in Llanelli on Saturday. Without the luxury of even a warm-up match to prepare, the rebuilt Kings will have to dig deep if they want to match the battle-hardened Welsh outfit on foreign soil. Rugby games are not only won by ball in hand, Kings head coach Deon Davids said. The biggest challenge is our work rate, effort and intensity. Physicality without the ball will also be crucial for us. If everyone can up their physicality, mentality and the way they approach this game, in terms of their attitude, you are always in with a shout. Asked what he thought the strengths of the new-look Kings would be, Davids said: We have some exciting players in the backline and also a lot of talent in the forwards. I would like to see a good balance between backs and forwards. I would encourage the guys to play the way we used to play. They must play towards where our pace is and make good decisions and recognise space. Davids is not particularly concerned about the weather his team will face in Wales and in Ireland against Connacht in their second tour match. We understand it will be a challenge, but we still have two days there just to get used to it and prepare for those condiDavids tions. Hopefully, the weather is not so hard on us in the first game and we can take a bit of PE s weather with us and feel comfortable. named a 27-member squad (15 forwards and 12 backs), including 10 players who were part of the Southern Kings Super Rugby campaign. Crucially, the squad also includes two players with Pro14 experience. Loose-forward Dries van Schalkwyk (formerly with Zebre), and Rossouw de Klerk (formerly with Glasgow Warriors) are key new signings. Davids will name the matchday squad for the opening match at the 15 000-seater Parc y Scarlets arena today. Before the team left for Wales, Davids said fiery hooker Michael Willemse would captain the team on their twoweek tour. South Africa s other team competing in the Pro14, the Cheetahs, make their debut in the competition tomorrow against Ulster in Belfast. There has been a word of encouragement for the Kings and Cheetahs from former Lions coach Johan Ackermann, who is now at Gloucester. If it was the Kings side that played Super Rugby I would say they would definitely give sides a good run. Unfortunately, they have lost a lot of players, he said. They have signed some exciting players, but playing at that level may be a step too far at the moment. As they grow as a team they will be competitive, but I don t think the Kings will threaten the top sides. The Cheetahs will be good and will push the top teams. They have a strong Super Rugby side and have been playing in the Currie Cup. 