Vanthonia Castello is still struggling to come to terms with her husband Hilton&#8217;s disappearance Picture: Riaan Marais While three families are still waiting for their loved ones remains to be found, the Balobi fishing company has instructed its legal team to assist these families in the process of having their loved ones declared dead. A month has passed since the Maredon chokka vessel ran aground and capsized off the coast of Cape St Francis and hope of finding the remains of the last three fishermen still missing has faded. Now Balobi has volunteered its attorneys to help families through the technical and drawn-out process of having their loved ones officially declared dead without finding their bodies. According to Balobi managing director Mark Rowe, the company is working closely with the three families to gather the necessary information for court applications that would get the process started. There is a long and complicated legal process involved in having someone declared dead without proof of a body, as in the case of people lost at sea. We understand that these families may not have access to attorneys that can assist them with this process, so we are working closely with them to get this process under way, Rowe said. McWilliams and Elliott attorneys director Ed Murray explained that unlike in other countries, South Africa did not require a certain amount of time to lapse before a person could be declared dead. The lapse of time is but one factor that is taken into consideration before granting a presumption of death order. Personal circumstances, such as the person s age and health, prior to their disappearance, are also taken into account, Murray said. More importantly, in a case such as this where someone is lost at sea, the chance of a person s survival, given the date of the incident, would be taken into account by a court when exercising its discretion to presume death. Murray said an application like this would be made to the high court, and the procedure could be started by the missing person s spouse, children, relatives or even creditors. Part of the process is to have a notice of the order published in a daily newspaper circulated in the area where the missing person resided. If anyone comes forward with information stating that the person may still be alive an investigation will be done. If no such information surfaces after a certain amount of time the court can go ahead in granting the presumption of death order. Murray added that the fishermen s spouses could also have their marriages dissolved. If any of these missing fishermen were married when they disappeared the court can then also dissolve the marriage at the spouse s request, in accordance with the Dissolution of Marriages on Presumption of Death Act of 1979, Murray said. Officials search for missing fishermen File picture: Werner Hills Vanthonia Castello, whose husband Hilton is one of the missing fishermen, said she was still struggling to come to terms with his disappearance. I know he is not coming back, but until I see a body I don t know if I can accept that he is really dead, the 27-year-old mother of three said. Despite meeting with representatives from Balobi and starting the process of having him legally declared dead, she does not believe it will feel real until there is a funeral or memorial service. Financially it has been really hard for us. Hilton was the breadwinner, and I don t even have a job. For now I am relying on family to support me and my kids, she said, her voice cracking with emotion. She said her two daughters with Hilton, Vanthonicha, 3, and Hiltonechia, 1, were still too young to understand that their father was not coming back, but her older son from a previous relationship, Vanthonio, 10, was also struggling to come to terms with Hilton s disappearance. I have been with Hilton since my son was two years old, so he is the only father Vanthonio really knows. He is a quiet child who does not show a lot of emotion, but I can tell this has been very tough for him. The Maredon capsized and ran aground on July 16 when it was caught in rough seas off the coast of Cape St Francis. Of the 16 crew members on board seven managed to make it to shore alive. One was found dead near the wreck and five more washed up between Cape St Francis and Port Elizabeth.