Ulagh Williams Picture: Werner Hills Well-known Bay musician and voice lecturer Ulagh Williams is putting together a debut album of her original music and will give the public a sneak preview next Saturday August 19. Williams, who co-owns the music production company TwoTone Music with her husband, Gareth Williams, said the years she had spent as a performer covering other artists music in foreign countries had made for interesting lyrical content and songwriting material. She will be showcasing her debut original music from her upcoming album and some songs that she has been performing on her tours. My songs are a little like that special bottle of wine you ve hidden away for just the right occasion. After years of performing other artists songs, I realised I had an awesome band, a great audience who support our shows and all the know-how on producing shows but I d never built an entire show around my own music, Williams said. The pianist and vocalist fell in love with music at the age of five when she started taking piano lessons. She has since had her career based on and around music. Having studied classical music while enrolled at the Nelson Mandela University (NMU), she has taught music in various high schools in Cape Town and Port Elizabeth and is now a jazz vocals lecturer at her alma mater, NMU. After spending time as a full-time entertainer internationally, Williams returned to her home city of Port Elizabeth where she and Gareth started the TwoTone Music band in 2009. [The album] is all about making music that is authentic, real, and not bound to trends and current ideas. The songs tell a story about my journey in life and as a musician and I believe that the stories they tell will resonate with people, she said. Williams will hold the sneak preview show at the Bird Street Conservatoire on Saturday. She said the show would be a mixture of jazz, blues and soul music that could be enjoyed by different people, in an interactive set up. We are creating a feel of a nice intimate jazz club and we try and make it as interactive as we can. Williams will be backed by TwoTone Band members Grant Allison (bass) and Bevin Maschaka (drums). Guitarist Hez Armoed and well-known trombonist Kyle du Preez will also join the lineup, along with a variety of guest performers. I am lucky to have built up a loyal following for the shows I ve done with TwoTone over the years and I m quite excited about getting up [on stage] with the musicians in the lineup, she said. Tickets for the show cost R120. Doors open at 7pm and the show starts at 7.30pm. Seating is caf style and guests are invited to bring along snack baskets. A cash bar will be available on site and pre-booking is advised due to limited seating. For bookings and more information, contact Williams on 083-627-4686. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share