A full house is expected for the Springboks&#8217; match against Argentina on Saturday Picture: Werner Hills Assistant coach expects Argentines to be fired up for championship kick-off Argentina will have fire in their bellies and be prepared to die for their country when they face the Springboks in Port Elizabeth on Saturday, South Africa s assistant coach Franco Smith has warned. A full house of 46 000 fans at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium can expect a no-holds-barred battle when the Rugby Championship kicks off. Smith said the Boks were preparing for a complete onslaught from an innovative outfit, who thrive on creating opportunities out of nothing. While the Argentine Jaguares did not set the world alight in Super Rugby this year, Smith has warned the Springboks they can expect to be confronted by a totally different beast on Saturday. South Africa s 3-0 clean sweep over the French in June has fuelled the fires of expectation and hopes are high that the winning trend will continue in the Rugby Championship. I have worked with Argentine people overseas and they are very proud of what they do. I think that brings extra motivation and fire in the belly and I believe that is what they thrive on, Smith said. They also feed off one another s energy and are literally prepared to die for their country. I believe we will see a different Argentine side compared to the one we saw in Super Rugby. They are full of confidence and they are a side who play to their strengths. They create a lot of one-on-ones and like to open the game up. It will be important for us to be ready for the challenge. Definitely, their first phase will be a big challenge for us, so we will have to work hard and settle down in our own systems and expect everything from them. They are a side who can create anything from nothing. Smith said there would be a big difference between the way Argentina prepared for the Rugby Championship compared to the way they approached Super Rugby. I believe they are looking forward to six test matches, Smith said. In the Super Rugby competition, you look at a long season and you have to have variations to be competitive because of the video work they do on you. Now they will focus on six games and test match rugby is played a little bit differently. Once you put your jersey on for your country you are prepared to die for it. That makes them really difficult contenders. They are an opportunistic side so they try to create a situation where it is a little bit loose in the middle of the field and they have the ability, from that, to create something from nothing, Smith said. After Saturday s opener, the Springboks travel to Argentina next week for the return game in Salta. We see these two games against Argentina as a game of two halves. We also know that it will be four halves of 40 minutes and not just one game of 80 minutes. We will have to apply a lot of pressure from the start. It is important for us to settle back into our ways and we ended off well in the June test series against France. We must find our feet as soon as possible and gel in the Rugby Championship, Smith said.