Angler Darrell Hattingh with a yellowfin tuna caught from the rocks at Mazeppa Bay The time has surely come to examine the law when it comes to photographic evidence of suspected wrongdoing in angling. Recently I came across a photograph on social media that was taken in Port St Johns, blatantly displaying questionable catches. The two people pictured appeared visibly proud of breaking the law and seemed almost to relish the fact that no law enforcers were around. Assuming that the photographer was also angling, the catch should have been only four fish (only one dusky kob per person per day is permitted from the shore). The picture I saw showed fish well in excess of that. It is disgusting to see such arrogance placed on social media platforms and it is frustrating that the law is defenceless under the circumstances. These people should be named and shamed. On to another subject, the use of jet-skis in the Port Elizabeth harbour is now permitted. In order to do so, one needs to acquire membership of a club operating through the port. The PE Deep-Sea Angling Club has extended an invitation to prospective members with the relevant compliance requirements. A VHF radio is a requirement as well. This development is a huge step forward for the city s jet-ski enthusiasts. These anglers have had limited access to the sea as jet-skis are prohibited in the estuaries where easy access to the sea can be made. The jet-ski engine has always been questioned as these craft can negotiate shallow water where sensitive life forms dwell. Using a deep-water port is the answer. On the angling front, the Gamtoos 1000 is scheduled for September 30 to October 3. This is one of the angling calendar s annual highlights with tickets available from Trophy Tackle Den. This past period has seen fish take the hook with a few steenbras, kob, musselcracker, shad and grunter being caught all around the coast. Most probably the pre-frontal condition has played a role. The rains experienced might help matters a few days from now in the estuaries too. Unusual catches are always interesting. Today s photo shows Darrell Hattingh with a yellowfin tuna caught off Mazeppa Bay. I have studied the FishTrack app for some time now and am not surprised by the catch as the warm water has hugged the coast for some time. What makes it unusual is you need a boat and some distance from the shore to catch these species. They are deep water fish and very water-temperature sensitive. This must surely be a rock and surf record? This weekend s weather sees low tide at 8am tomorrow with a predicted high barometer reading of 1030hPa and falling throughout the weekend. We move towards a dark moon spring tide on August 22, so this weekend falls in a very favourable period.