Luvuyo Bangazi found that participating in triathlons provided more than his original aim to lose weight Picture: Supplied Bangazi now uses the sport to raise money for kids who need surgery What started off as a weight loss programme for amateur triathlete Luvuyo Bangazi has now turned into a lifestyle and a tool to develop and help disadvantaged people through sport. Bangazi, 41, has been involved in triathlons since 2012 and took it upon himself to promote and help more black people to be part of the sport. He has also used the sport as a drive to promote the Smile Foundation initiative and to raise funds for children who need facial reconstructive surgery. The athlete recently returned from Germany, where he and five Eastern Cape triathletes took on the Challenge Regensburg race (which is an Ironman distance race) in an attempt to raise R30 000 for the Smile Foundation. Bangazi, who also works as the Nelson Mandela Bay Development Agency s marketing and communications manager, has played a vital role in the bid for and hosting of Ironman World Championships next year. Originally from Queenstown, the husband and father of two girls has been a resident of Port Elizabeth for more than 20 years now. If you come from a rural town like Queenstown you don t hear anything about triathlon, he said. The only thing you hear about is soccer, rugby and netball. My father played rugby and that is what I was guided to, but I totally refused. I however played rugby at school because it was an obligation, but beyond that I was never really active in sport. I didn t have a clue about triathlon or even that it existed. There are no swimming pools in Queenstown; we used to swim in dams and I couldn t swim at all. After seeing pictures of himself after a photo shoot he did for the business chamber and being told he was heading to obesity in 2011, Bangazi needed a plan to drop the weight. I knew I was not eating well, clubbing a lot and late nights so eventually it all adds up to kilograms. In 2012 I took part in the Corporate Ironman. As heavy as I was, my only task in the team was to cycle, but the third member pulled out at the last minute so I had to bike and run. It was a long day but it gave me a sense of achievement, because I had done something I thought I would never do which was to cycle 18km and run 4km. So, I got interested in the sport and I thought maybe I could do the full corporate by myself. I tried to get in in 2013 but it was sold out so I thought the best thing I could do was to volunteer. I was placed in the bike section. You are there the whole day and you see people coming out, some broken and some smiling and I thought maybe this was the way out for me. I joined a team called Vukani Multisport, who had runs along the beach front. After volunteering, Bangazi started cycling and running seriously and took part in his first cycling race, the Herald Cycling Tour. He needed to learn one more discipline to complete the full Ironman package swimming. He enrolled in swimming classes for kiddies at Humewood Virgin Active gym, where he was taught the basics and when he got the hang of things he looked for a triathlon coach. In 2014 I registered for the half Ironman in East London and that s where I met Ironman winner Reynard Tissink. I did my first half Ironman in January and it was a long seven hours and 20 minutes, which was just about an hour shy of the cut-off. But, for me it was another motivation to say this is possible and by then I was starting to feel a bit lighter as I was shedding weight. Although the journey started off to get rid of the excess weight it starting becoming about pushing yourself to achieve whatever you want to achieve. As soon as I finished the half I signed up for the full Ironman in PE, he said. Although for most people taking part in Ironman would be part of their bucket list plans for things to do before the year ended, Bangazi feels otherwise. The sport has taught me that I can push myself to do things that I think are impossible. That I can actually create and dream new goals and I can achieve those goals as I go. It s also brought me new friendships that I will treasure for ever and discipline. I have also learnt dedication and just being able to connect with myself and to know what I can and cannot do, but to also know that you can always come back from a low. However, most importantly you start to appreciate life. You travel the world and you see things and you experience different cultures, he said. Suddenly for me it also gave me the opportunity to be able to contribute to the sport that gave me so much . I am involved in development initiatives and I am very excited to be involved with the city s own initiative, which is the hosting of the Ironman World Championships. My job and my passion have collided into one. I never thought that these opportunities would be there. I love the fact that young black kids are getting into the sport of triathlon. They are really trying to take the sport seriously. 