Tendai Beast Mtawarira fights his way past the Pumas defence at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium Picture: Eugene Coetzee Coetzee s half-time pep talk to exploit space paved way for emphatic victory A smart change of tactics at half time set the wheels in motion for South Africa s emphatic 37-15 win over Argentina in their opening Rugby Championship clash. At the break, the Boks held a slender 13-5 lead, but coach Allister Coetzee then instructed his troops to get in behind the Pumas in front of 44 000 fans at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Saturday. Coetzee s clever switch worked its magic, and the Boks ran in three sparkling tries in the second half as they took charge against the Pumas. In all, the Boks scored four tries to the two of the Pumas, in a promising start to what will be a tough campaign with the All Blacks lying in wait further down the road. After whipping the French 3-0 in June, the improved Boks have continued their forward momentum after a disastrous campaign last year, which saw them win only four of 12 matches. The challenges will now come thick and fast for the Boks over the next nine weeks and their next assignment is the tough return leg against the Pumas in Salta. After half time, it was a matter of changing the tactics a wee bit and getting the ball behind them. Because there was space behind them, Coetzee said. One of the tries we conceded was exactly what Jan Serfontein tried to do. But the grubber was just too straight and they punished us with that. The message at half time was to stay patient and we will get into the right areas, and we did with Raymond Rhule s try. Space was opening up on the right-hand edges and it was great to see our players have a go when they found the space. So scoring tries is not a natural thing but it is also what is happening at Super Rugby level. Players are really comfortable using the width of the field and the ball, the coach said. Though the victory stretched South Africa s unbeaten run to four matches this season, Coetzee is looking for more improvement. To kick off the campaign with a win is very pleasing and a good start. I don t want to single out any players, but the pack really played very well. That is what test match rugby is all about. It is for the pack to dominate at set piece and I think our scrums were outstanding. Prop Coenie Oosthuizen has done exceptionally well and the impact from the bench was really great. Compared to last year, our mauling has improved a lot and those are all positives. I must say you must never underestimate the Argentine side. People make out as though it is the Jaguares Super Rugby team. It is not. It took us some time to break them and find spaces and gaps in their defence, where they were exceptional, Coetzee said. Springbok captain Eben Etzebeth was also pleased with the performance, which has provide his team with a launch pad for bigger things. We wanted to play in their half and we managed to keep them down there and punished their mistakes, Etzebeth said. We must try and take some of this momentum into this week s game. We need to change the mindset that away matches are tough and try to stay positive. Towards the end, the Boks were running rampant against a Pumas side who were clearly flagging in the face of the total Bok onslaught. It was the ideal start to the competition for South Africa, who are trying to exorcise the ghosts of last year. Scrumhalf Jano Vermaak, of the Stormers, has been called up to the Bok squad as replacement for Ross Cronje, who sustained an ankle injury on Saturday. The scorers: South Africa 37: Tries: Courtnall Skosan, Raymond Rhule, Siya Kolisi, Pieter-Steph Du Toit. Conversions: Elton Jantjies (4). Penalties: Elton Jantjies (3 ) Argentina 15: Tries: Martin Landajo, Emiliano Boffelli, Conversion: Juan Hernandez. Penalty: Nicolas Sanchez.