Women and children fleeing violence in their villages arrive at the Yathae Taung township in Rakhine state in Myanmar Picture: AFP At least 6 000 Rohingya civilians fleeing renewed violence in Myanmar are stranded near the border with Bangladesh which is blocking their entry, a senior Bangladeshi official said yesterday, as the United Nations urged Dhaka to let them in. Bangladesh has barred thousands of civilians from the stateless Muslim minority from entering the country since Friday, when fresh fighting broke out between Myanmar s security forces and Rohingya militants in neighbouring Rakhine state, leaving at least 110 people dead. The UN refugee agency has said about 5 200 people have managed to cross into Bangladesh in the past three days. But the majority have been stopped at the border despite heavy fighting in nearby villages, even coming under fire on Saturday as they huddled along the zero line which marks the northernmost part of the border. Around 6 000 Myanmar nationals have gathered on the border and are trying to enter Bangladesh, a senior Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) official said. The official said the situation across the border, which is demarcated in parts by narrow stretches of the Naf River, was still volatile. Last night, we heard heavy gunfire by automatic weapons in phases and saw smoke billowing from burnt villages across the border, he said. Another BGB official estimated the number of Rohingya in limbo could exceed 10 000, as many were believed to be hiding in the hills and forests to escape nearby violence. But border guards have been ordered not to let them cross. How can I deny shelter to a newborn who is dying from cold? asked a border guard, who did not want to be named. With about 400 000 Rohingya already living in squalid camps in Bangladesh, the government has instructed its border guards to prevent another influx at all costs. In a statement, the UN s refugee agency said barring entry created a very grave risk for the fleeing people. In Geneva, UNHCR spokesman Adrian Edwards said it was of the utmost importance that Bangladesh continues to allow Rohingya fleeing violence to seek safety. His comments reinforced a message from UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres, who called on Bangladesh to step up assistance to escaping civilians, particularly the wounded. Instead, nearly 500 Rohingya had been detained and returned trying to cross the border since Monday, BGB deputy commander Shariful Islam Jamaddar said. Border guards had been driving Rohingya who had managed to cross into Bangladesh back across the border several times a day, an AFP correspondent at the scene said.