Port Elizabeth&#8217;s Kyle Buckinghman is participating in the Ironman World Championships in Kona, Hawaii, in October Picture: Kyle Buckingham / Instagram Buckingham set for Hawaii Ironman Port Elizabeth triathlete Kyle Buckingham will once again be flying the country s flag at this year s Ironman World Championships in Kona, Hawaii,in October. This will be Buckingham s seventh world championship race but only his fourth as a professional. And the 34-year-old, 2014 Ironman Lake Placid winner will be pushing hard to finish the race this time around after an upset stomach forced him to withdraw last year. This time around he has set his sights on a top-15 finish as he tackles some of the world s best athletes. Buckingham was the first SA athlete home in this year s Ironman African Championships, taking fourth place. He took a three-week break from training after taking part in the South American Championships, which took place in Brazil, where he finished second. Currently training in his Scottsdale, Arizona, base camp, Buckingham spoke to the Weekend Post about his road to Kona. So far everything is on track for Kona with just less than nine weeks to go now. My wife and I are living and training out of Scottsdale, preparing my body for the heat. I have been training for around seven weeks already after a three-week break I took in June after the Ironman South American Champs in Brazil, where I came second overall on May 28. At the moment my health is great and looking strong. I try my best to look after my body with stretching and good recovery and I have no injuries, he said. Buckingham has completed a couple of races prior to Kona, with the most recent one being Ironman 70.3 Steelhead, where he finished in fifth place. He is now preparing for the Ironman 70.3 Santa Cruz in California on September 10 which he will use as his final preparation for the World Champs. He said being able to qualify each year for Kona was a fantastic feeling. Knowing that I have been one of the top 58 triathletes in the world every year is an awesome feeling. That feeling never gets old. Last year, I was within touching distance of a top-20 finish, but I had to retire exiting the Natural Energy Lab to the medical tent with an upset stomach, heat stroke and blisters on my back. So, this year I am coming back to fight for a top-15 or higher spot, he said. At every race you have competition but in Kona you are up against the best of the best. You go into this race not knowing how your competition feels, good or bad. You only know how you feel, so you have to work with that and stick to your game plan. It is the World Champs and some of the guys can get carried away with the heat and humidity. #tbt to my first Ironman win and first year as a pro back in 2014. It was the last year as a pro race back then but so glad it&#8217;s back to being a pro race this weekend. Good luck to everyone racing this amazing race, hope the weather is a lot better this year! Have a awesome time commentating such an iconic race @ironmanvoice @ironmantri #rookie #ironman #IMLP #bucketlistironman @lizkreutz A post shared by Kyle Buckingham (@kylebuckingham) on Jul 20, 2017 at 7:31am PDT Although he generally has a good balance in all three disciplines, swimming, cycling and running, this time around he has placed more emphasis on his running. Besides the race Buckingham said he was looking forward to the atmosphere in the streets of Kona ahead of the race. There is nothing better than the energy that happens in Hawaii two weeks out when every top athlete from around the world arrives. There is this crazy buzz that I have never felt at any other race. I am also looking forward to catching up with my fellow competitor friends. During the race year our race schedules never seem to cross paths until Kona, he said. I have an exciting new sponsor in the pipelines. If any local company or business would like to take their logo global on my race suit for 2018 please reach out. Support your local PE boy. 