Maria, left, and Shantell Speelman still mourn the death of their daughter and sister, Maricha, who was only 10 when she died in 2013 after being struck by a bullet, believed to be from a police firearm Picture: Eugene Coetzee Four years after her young daughter was shot in the head and allegedly thrown into a police van like an animal while out on an errand, Maria Speelman will today take on the police in the Port Elizabeth High Court. After years of anguish, the Speelman family is hoping for answers as to what exactly happened during violent protests in Uitenhage when 10-year-old Maricha was tragically caught up in the chaos, robbing them of their precious child. The family claims it was a uniformed policeman who shot Maricha in the head during the Langa land invasion confrontation in late 2013, despite the police denying this and insisting that no live ammunition was used on the day. Speelman, 52, and her family members are suing the police for more than R3-million as they seek justice for Maricha. In Langa, where the family lives, the tragedy has not been forgotten. People still refer to Speelman as the woman whose child was shot . For her, it is as if no time has passed since November 13 2013, the day all hell broke loose in the township. It feels like it happened yesterday, she said. The chaos was triggered when the then municipality applied for a high court interdict to stop a land invasion. At the time, residents demanding houses blocked roads, set community halls alight and torched councillors offices and vehicles. Roads were choked with burning tyres, cars were pelted with stones and entry to Rosedale, Gerald Smit and Langa townships was blocked. Four protesters were arrested for public violence, but it was only later in the day that tragedy struck in the vicinity of Kamesh Street. Speelman said the chaos of the morning had calmed down by around 4pm when she sent Maricha to buy electricity at a service station up the road. Sitting in her neat little shack in Langa, bordered by the vegetable garden Maricha used to help her tend, Speelman could not stop her tears. She said community members had made sure throughout the day that the children were safe. At the school, the deputy principal [had] crossed the road with them to make sure they would be safe. But later, though things were calmer, there were still confrontations. Maricha was shot at the bridge. It is a short distance from the house. She went to buy R50 of electricity for me at the garage. There were four children who walked together. They had done this many times before it was a 30-minute walk, she said. But on their way back, Maricha was wounded when she was allegedly shot in the head. At first it was not clear what had hit her. For the full story read The Herald, or get the complete newspaper, including comics, classifieds, crosswords and back editions in our e-Edition. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share