Ex-Grey High pupil Curwin Bosch, centre, in training at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium Picture: Eugene Coetzee Golden opportunity for eager Curwin Bosch to make mark for Springboks Just two years after playing Craven Week rugby for Eastern Province, rugby whizzkid Curwin Bosch has been handed a gilt-edged opportunity to prove he belongs on the international stage. The 20-year-old with the golden boot, who displayed maturity beyond his years playing for the Sharks in Super Rugby, faces an eagerly awaited Springbok debut against Argentina in front of 46 000 fans at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium tomorrow. Bok coach Allister Coetzee, when naming his team with Bosch on the bench, showered praise on the backdivision star, who was born close to Port Elizabeth in Alexandria. Coetzee said Bosch had slotted well into the Bok environment during his stay of almost two weeks with the squad in Port Elizabeth. Curwin is a young player with huge potential and a bright future ahead of him, he said. He showed in the very tough Super Rugby competition that he is a skilful player and a prolific goal kicker and he covers both fullback and flyhalf. He can be very proud of his inclusion in the match-day squad, as he matriculated from Grey Port Elizabeth just two years ago. Curwin is a wonderful young talent. I think, first and foremost, it is the coach s responsibility to manage him properly. Without a doubt he is a prolific goal-kicker and he also covers 10 and 15, Coetzee said. Curwin was invited to a medical camp earlier. We did not have a good picture of his general play ability as a 10. When I talk about general play ability, it is not just his skills only, but his communication skills. Having watched him at a camp, he is quite mature for a 20-year-old. We can see there is a sense of confidence and we need to unlock that more to give direction. The other coaches and I are happy from what we have seen and that is why he has been afforded the golden opportunity. Coetzee stressed the importance of Bosch being able to cover both fullback and flyhalf. We had that luxury with Frans Steyn as the backup No 10 and also the goalkicker. Therefore, a player like Curwin is an ideal selection on the bench. It is a must, he said. Who else should we have selected? In June, again, we had only one flyhalf standing. Patrick Lambie and Handre Pollard were out injured. Now we have three, with Elton Jantjies back again and Pollard back in the mix and he is looking really good at this point in time and probably, in a crisis situation, I would have looked at selecting him. But there is a further two weeks for Pollard to even condition better. His sharpness is getting back, so in two weeks time, when we get back from Argentina, he will be ready for selection, the coach said. Powerful Cheetahs star Uzair Cassiem will start at No 8 against the Argentines and has a key role to play, in what promises to be a tight contest. The other change to the pack that started the third test against France in Johannesburg in June, sees the inclusion of experienced tighthead prop Coenie Oosthuizen in place of Ruan Dreyer. Cassiem comes into the starting lineup for only his second test, after he made his international debut in November against Wales, in Cardiff, with Jean-Luc du Preez moving to the bench. Coetzee made only one change to the backline, with scrumhalf Ross Cronje taking over the No 9 duties from Francois Hougaard. Uzair is a very versatile loose forward and the added advantage is that he is also an excellent option in the lineout, Coetzee said. Coenie has played consistently well this season for the Sharks and performed well for us whenever he came off the bench in the French series, while Trevor has worked hard and deserves his opportunity. The Bok coach said his charges were well prepared for the opening fixture against the Pumas. We are pleased with our preparations and expect another huge contest from Argentina, a proud rugby nation. They are excellent in set pieces and have a number of world-class players. Their biggest threat is they strike from first phase, are hard at the breakdown and look to turn over ball to attack, Coetzee said.