At the hand over were, from left, Manfred Gie (VW), Jane Stevenson (Magnetic Storm), Quintin Levey (Exporters Club), Ndulela Canca (VW), and Henning Jens (VW) Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Uitenhage-based car manufacturer VW South Africa has been voted overall 2017 Exporter of the Year by the Eastern Cape branch of the Exporters Club of South Africa. The announcement of the winner of the coveted award was made during the 22nd annual Exporter of the Year banquet held at the Sun Boardwalk International Convention Centre last night. The event was hosted by Exporters Eastern Cape and the ceremony was attended by 500 guests. The Exporter of the Year Awards honours and acknowledges exporters and service providers to the industry who have excelled in the past year. In the judges opinion, VWSA achieved the most success in the period under review. After the awards company finance director, Henning Jens, said the group was very proud to have received it and that the company remained as committed as ever to the Eastern Cape. We have made huge investments and are looking forward to serving the area for a long time to come, he said. Other awards the group has won include: VWSA was announced at the overall winner of the 2016-17 Ask Africa Orange Index Award, which measures consumer satisfaction across 32 countries. The South African Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association announced them as the manufacturer of the year for the seventh consecutive year. Their communications division was awarded the Think Blue Factory Environmental Engagement Award ahead of 27 other plants in the group. They were announced as the 2017 Top Employer in the Automotive Industry by the Top Employer Institute for the sixth consecutive year. In March last year, the company hosted the first ever Black Owned suppliers day in the automotive industry, attended by Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies Quintin Levey, chairman of Exporters Eastern Cape said: The standard of the entries received in all the categories was of a very high standard this year, making the judging process exceptionally difficult. Exporters Eastern Cape is very appreciative of the sponsorship received for this event and we look forward to an even bigger event next year. Transnet was the platinum sponsor of the event, gold sponsors included First National Bank and Volkswagen South Africa, silver sponsors were IDC, Credit Guarantee, SJM, Magnetic Storm and KPMG, while the media partners were Kingfisher FM and Weekend Post. The audience was entertained by master of ceremonies Ian von Memerty and the guest speaker was Michelle Phillips of Transnet Group Commercial. Other award winners included: SJM FLEX ENVIRONMENTAL AWARD Winner: Schaeffler SA. IDC JOB CREATOR AWARD Winner: SJM Flex SA BEST PROVIDER OF SERVICE TO EXPORTERS Winner: DG Capital EXPORTER SMALL BUSINESS Winner: Talhado Fishing Enterprises BEST EXPORTER CORPORATE CATEGORY Winner: Eberspacher South Africa