Springbok coach Allister Coetzee Picture: Mark Andrews / Daily Dispatch Sprinkbok coach Allister Coetzee believes Port Elizabeth is not known as the Friendly City for nothing and he is counting on massive home support when his side face Argentina at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on August 19. The Boks, who are defending a proud unbeaten record at the stadium, will assemble in Port Elizabeth this morning and have a training session at the stadium later in the day. Since beating the All Blacks in the opening test at the stadium in 2011, South Africa have beaten Scotland and Ireland and drawn against England at the venue. It is really great to be back in the Eastern Cape because Grahamstown is my home town, Coetzee said. I asked for the camp to start here in Port Elizabeth we had a similar experience ahead of the French series in Plettenberg Bay and that really went well. People hardly get to see the Springboks a lot in this part of the world and it is really great to be here. Port Elizabeth is not called the Friendly City for nothing and there are massive [numbers of] Springbok supporters here. It is great for the team to be in this environment. There are fantastic facilities at the stadium and we are really well looked after. The Springboks will also train at various other venues across the city, to be announced later in the week, so that fans can watch their preparations. They will attend an EP Rugby Union fundraising dinner at the Boardwalk on Saturday. But before that, at 8am on Saturday, Coetzee and selected players will hold a 2023 Rugby World Cup bid flag-hoisting event at the Donkin Reserve. Coetzee said he was pleased with the largely unchanged 34-man squad named for the Port Elizabeth test, which allowed for greater continuity and consistency. Our players must be well-conditioned, match-fit and also be able to make good onfield decisions, he said. We are also looking for continuity, experience and combinations all elements which I believe are reflected in the current squad selection. He praised the good form of the Bok players during the French series and the Super Rugby competition, which has allowed him to keep squad changes to a minimum. All of the Springboks who were in action in the June tests and the latter part of the Super Rugby campaign played very well and I have no doubt they will bring that form with them when we assemble, Coetzee said. Some players have initially missed out on selection due to various reasons, but this squad is not cast in stone and changes can be made as we progress through the tournament. I always said it must be difficult for a player to force himself into the squad, and I am really pleased that through their performances they have again earned selection to the Springbok group. SPRINGBOK coach Allister Coetzee has not decided who will lead the Springboks into battle against Argentina in Port Elizabeth on Saturday next week. Coetzee, who arrived in Port Elizabeth yesterday to start preparing for the opening test in the Rugby Championship, said he would make a decision later in the week. First choice captain Warren Whiteley has not recovered from a groin injury and is only expected to be back in the frame in six weeks time. It remains unclear whether Eben Etzebeth, who stepped in to take Whiteley s place for the third test against France at Ellis Park, will retain the captaincy. Etzebeth became the Boks 59th captain against the French when South Africa stormed to a 3-0 series whitewash. When Etzebeth took over the captaincy, Coetzee said: Eben is the team s vice-captain and we d already decided and planned at our camp in Plettenberg Bay what would happen if Warren was ruled out at any stage. Speaking in Port Elizabeth yesterday, Coetzee said the captaincy issue had not been decided. We are working on the basis of a leadership group. In that group are Siya Kolisi, Elton Jantjies and Beast Mtawarira, who are in there with Eben, he said. With Warren out, we will have a look because there are a lot of leaders in this side and Jaco Kriel has also been doing well as captain. It is important for the players in the leadership group to understand that they all have to chip in now. I will make that decision later in the week. We will have a discussion around that when they all arrive. Captaincy is always a big thing in our country and people want to know who it will be. Naturally, Warren is a setback for us, not only as a captain, but also as a player. Injuries are part of the game and at one time or another there are other leaders that must come forward to lead the side. The Springbok squad arrive in Port Elizabeth this morning and will have a training session at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium this afternoon. Prop Mtawarira is recovering from a neck injury sustained in June. He will, however, join the Bok squad in Port Elizabeth, where his return to play will be closely monitored and a call on his availability for selection made during the course of the two weeks. We have planned for all eventualities and replacements will only be called upon when needed, Coetzee said. The coach said Trevor Nyakane had the ability to cover both sides of the scrum. Trevor has worked hard and has met conditioning targets which were set before the June series. The squad: Forwards: Uzair Cassiem Lood de Jager Dan du Preez Jean-Luc du Preez Pieter-Steph du Toit Eben Etzebeth Lizo Gqoboka Steven Kitshoff Siya Kolisi Jaco Kriel Frans Malherbe Malcolm Marx Bongi Mbonambi Teboho Mohoje Franco Mostert Tendai Mtawarira Trevor Nyakane Coenie Oosthuizen Chiliboy Ralepelle. Backs: Curwin Bosch Andries Coetzee Ross Cronje Damian de Allende Warrick Gelant Francois Hougaard Elton Jantjies Jesse Kriel Dillyn Leyds Rudy Paige Handr Pollard Raymond Rhule Jan Serfontein Courtnall Skosan Francois Venter. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share