Among those taking part in the latest Business Conversations with Mfuleni and Friends were, from the left, Standard Bank business bank head in Port Elizabeth Ray Bibby, Nelson Mandela University Associate Professor Jean Greyling, Dennis Connect chief executive Darryl Dennis and Imbizo Group chief executive, Motse Mfuleni In his book, Jobs Jobs Jobs, Free Market Foundation director Temba Nolutshungu tells the heartbreaking story of Mbulelo Mjekelo. In February 2011 Mjekelo, a 35-year-old body builder, husband and father, locked himself and his wife in their Qwaqwa home in the Free State. He drank a mixture of rat poison and beer. Trapped inside the house and unable to get help, his wife was forced to witness her husband s life ebbing away in spasms of agony, vomit and screams, Nolutshungu writes. Mjekelo was at his wits end. After dropping out of university, he had been unable to find a job for far too long. He felt helpless, his self-esteem had plummeted and, according to his wife, he was embarrassed to see her go to work while he sat at home. In the end he could not bear it. Tragic as it was, his pain was not unique. Although frequently reported, the story of unemployment in South Africa is often told somewhat superficially, through statistics which do not adequately detail the daily personal hardships of millions of citizens who are jobless. It also does not adequately tell the story of those who continue to rise, fall and rise again in the turbulent journey of entrepreneurship. The last couple of weeks have been enlightening for me. I have been privileged to be part of a citizens initiative which seeks to create platforms for constructive discussions about business and creating jobs in Nelson Mandela Bay townships. The initiative Business Conversations with Mfuleni and Friends has pulled together a group of professionals from sectors such as banking, academia, property development, ICT and media. The idea is simple and twofold it is to try to bridge knowledge gaps that exist between established and young entrepreneurs as well as to promote a culture of effective dialogue in our communities. Over a number of weeks, the free sessions move from one township to another. The point is to network, share expertise and valuable insights with people who have travelled a similar path to yours people who understand the difficulties of accessing capital, building a brand and losing money, but who still keep at it. It s not a perfect initiative. Nor does it promise miracles. But it is rooted in the principle of active citizenship and the shared belief that the challenges of our country require all of us to do what we can to build the nation we want to become. During this time, I have been exposed to the experiences of young people in particular, who are doing business in our city. Their stories of failure and despair, hope and triumph are sobering. They highlight several issues which I believe should form part of our city s DNA if we are to build a culture of entrepreneurship. The most practical, which I have highlighted once before in this column, is the need for access to information where the majority of people live. Through these discussions it became apparent that too often what discourages young people from realising their potential, is the absence of credible information, business infrastructure and support in their communities. Simply put, where does an unemployed, semi-skilled 25-year-old from KwaZakhele township go to find information and support to assist him or her to start and build a sustainable business? The metro has some information centres, the main one in the Port Elizabeth CBD. But to many young people, they may not be easily accessible. Yet the reality is that in the short term, it may be financially impossible to roll these out to every community in our metro. This is where visionary leadership must come in. The city and its investment partners must drive a business outreach machinery that will close such gaps at the lowest possible cost. Second, it is a no-brainer that thanks to our poor education system, our province has among the most unskilled young people in the country. The impact of this on their ability to do business is enormous. Still, we have two choices we can either sit back and lament how this government has failed our children and betrayed our future or we can encourage as many people as possible to invest what they know to help those who want to learn. It may not entirely undo the damage done by our politics, but it may just open doors of opportunity to more young people to unleash their potential. Third, we need to have frank conversations about our social understanding of entrepreneurship. For example, while building RDP houses on behalf of the government is a perfectly legitimate form of trade, the apparent over-reliance by young entrepreneurs on this sector does not bode well for sustainability in business. It creates false hopes and false impressions of wealth, and does little to encourage self-development for long-term profitability. It narrows the realm of possibilities and robs young people of a potentially profitable world of innovation. Young people must be exposed to more. Importantly, they must be willing to stay the course and to build enterprises that can turn this economy around. Many have done it before. Common among them was this simple, yet profound gem said by Port Elizabeth businessman Darryl Dennis last week: Perseverance is key. Entrepreneurship is a journey not a race . &#8211; Nwabisa Makunga is The Herald deputy editor