President Jacob Zuma has declared war on party MPs who voted against him in the no-confidence vote to oust him last week. Speaking at the ANC Youth League-organised cadres&#8217; forum in uPhongolo in northern KwaZulu-Natal on Sunday where he was welcomed with rapturous applause Zuma said the ANC constitution should be applied against those that voted with the opposition in the National Assembly last week. Speaking in an area in his stronghold territory he said it was shocking that even the chairperson of the ANC disciplinary committee was implicated. He was referring to former cabinet minister Derek Hanekom&#8217;s who chairs the party&#8217;s disciplinary committee and who is among those suspected to have voted with the opposition parties to oust Zuma. Around 30 ANC MPs are calculated to have voted against the party s instructions during the no-confidence vote last Tuesday. The issue of what happened in parliament is something I will discuss with the officials but that&#8217;s my business. We talk about everything as officials. I&#8217;m sure even officials will be asking what are members saying but that&#8217;s not my business. My business is that as the president I will express my dissatisfaction about the conduct of some members and why he said. Do not be misled by some people Zuma warned. He read excerpts of the clauses of rule 25 of the ANC constitution which in prohibits members from collaborating with counter-revolutionary forces or other parties against the ANC and said such individuals should face the party&#8217;s disciplinary committee. If you commit any of these acts it means the ANC has to take you to the disciplinary committee because it means you have broken the law he said. However more shocking is that the chair of the very same committee&#8230; that&#8217;s another matter we should discuss because he is also implicated in this We do not know some of these people and their seniority though he said. Zuma said personal interests could not usurp ANC interests. We should not have comrades who take the ANC for granted and who do not care about it. You hear a person saying I m following my conscience&#8217;. Please do not have your conscience have an ANC conscience. The unity of the ANC is key and paramount to solving problems. Let&#8217;s not do otherwise. Many people died for this freedom and we are just toying with it the president said. Zuma also used the platform to call for KwaZulu-Natal to be united ahead of the party&#8217;s upcoming national conference elective conference which takes place in December and which will decide his successor as party leader. He said a divided KwaZulu-Natal would weaken the ANC I also urge alliance partners to stop squabbling. I&#8217;m glad that in KwaZulu-Natal you are not like that. I urge you to stick together and not be divided. Speak with one voice and any decision you make should be respected and followed he said. Zuma said those who said he and his son Duduzane were corrupt must say what he had done to warrant such a label. Can&#8217;t I have friends? he asked. I&#8217;m told there are also emails but I&#8217;m also waiting to see if any talk about me. I haven&#8217;t seen a Zuma email he said with a chuckle. As he threw down the gauntlet another son Edward issued another of his fiery open letters which have landed him in hot water. In Sunday missive he blamed South Africa s woes on white people. Edward Zuma said it was disgusting that the economy was still controlled by whites. This conquering of our land and economy which is still visible and evident in the post apartheid and current democratic dispensation is clear for all sane people to see that we the majority live with the materially intended consequences that white colonialists and apartheid architects wanted to see achieved. That in the main is a result of the suppression of Black economic and land dispossession of our people he wrote. In his previous instalments Zuma has insulted former finance minister Pravin Gordhan calling him a stooge of white monopoly capital . He also described former Tourism Minister Derek Hanekom an Afrikaner askari . The African National Congress described his earlier comments as disgusting and embarrassing. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share