Fiery loose forward CJ Velleman could be the jewel in the Southern Kings crown when they head north to make their debut in an enlarged European Pro14 tournament. Earlier this season, it was reported that the Stormers were eager to sign Velleman, because the Cape side were hunting for a specialist ball fetcher. Sources, however, said Velleman was still in Port Elizabeth and expected to be among the players contracted for the Kings Pro 14 campaign. Other players likely to be signed include Schalk Ferreira, Berton Klaasen, Andisa Ntsila, Luzuko Vulindlu and Yaw Penxe. There has also been talk that SA Rugby could boost the Kings with some test stars to ensure the team is capable of holding its own in Europe. A succession of cruel injuries meant that star fetcher Velleman did not play a single match for the Kings in Super Rugby this year after starring last season. After making good progress in his recovery from a long-term knee injury sustained last season, flanker Velleman received a setback when he damaged the same knee at training during May. Although he may not be ready for the season opener on September 2, Velleman is expected to make his presence felt during a 21-match Pro14 season, which ends at the end of May. The Pro14, which features the leading clubs of Ireland, Wales, Scotland and Italy, has been expanded to incorporate the Kings and Cheetahs in a ground-breaking move into cross-hemisphere rugby. The fixtures are expected to be announce early next week, and Port Elizabeth fans can expect summer rugby at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium. The competition has been split into two conferences of seven teams each, with an equal split of teams from each union. Every team will play every other team at least once, and the Italian, Scottish and South African teams will play an additional derby fixture to even out the schedule. The Cheetahs will play the Southern Kings three times. The Kings have been drawn in Conference B with Scarlets, Dragons, Leinster, Ulster, Edinburgh and Benneton. Conference A comprises Ospreys, Cardiff Blues, Munster, Connacht, Glasgow, Zebre and Cheetahs. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share