Lindiwe Sisulu File picture: Sibongile Ngalwa Metro council has asked minister to make more funds available In a desperate bid to speed up housing projects earmarked for Nelson Mandela Bay, the municipality has appealed to Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu to make more money available to the city. The metro s human settlements committee also asked her to intervene in dealing with the problem of land invasions and the rectifying of shoddily built houses. Sisulu said her department was mulling over the idea of getting private land owners on board to allow shack dwellers to occupy their land, with the promise of the government later buying the land from them at a higher rate. She said they would pilot this concept in Tshwane and, if successful, they would test it in other metros too. The human settlements committee, which met with Sisulu and mayor Athol Trollip on Thursday afternoon, told the minister they wanted to be able to build and manage housing projects in the metro. Human settlements portfolio head Nqaba Bhanga said the municipality was excited about various project concepts for the Bay but they needed to know when the money would be made available to make them a reality. We want to know when the financing is going to come. I am very interested in these projects. For example, there is a project called Florida Heights which we are very interested in making a success of but the financial support for these big projects is not there, Bhanga said. The proposed Florida Heights project is worth R9.5-billion and could see more than 3 000 families getting access to social housing in the Despatch area. Other human settlements projects in the pipeline for the Bay include Zanemvula Phase 2 in KwaNobuhle, Jagtvlakte in Algoa Park and the N2 Node (Baywest area), which are in the early stages of implementation. Bay human settlements executive director Nolwandle Gqiba reiterated Bhanga s sentiments and said the projects required funding to get off the ground. We are a relatively small metro, an industrial metro that has got two ports. We have got to be talking seriously about not necessarily mega cities but housing developments on a large scale in areas of Uitenhage and Wells Estate, Gqiba said. A lot of our people travel and pay expensively to go to work; the idea is that we should have partnerships for bigger developments in the area. Gqiba has previously said that some of the projects were at a standstill because no money was being made available by the government. Other issues raised included the city s housing revolving fund as well as challenges encountered with the Housing Development Agency (HDA). Bhanga said: Initially, we were not working well with HDA but that has improved. We were driving in different directions. We do not want to be colonised by HDA. We have the capacity to develop houses if we can be helped with the available resources. We believe that by giving us support and making it clear what we are supposed to do, we can be ready to take over the mandate of building houses by 2019. But Sisulu said all matters, including catalytic projects, would be dealt with at a municipal housing indaba expected to take place next month. Housing is one of the most problematic areas of government; we are not prepared for the rate at which people are urbanising. We have not got where we are supposed to be. We are dealing with a problem that has been there for many years and we re playing catch up and we might be playing catch up for a long time. On land invasion, Sisulu said: We have to find a way to educate our citizens that it is unlawful and taking away from the poor. It is also costly for the state. Sisulu said they would ensure that there were some land parcels in every metro where people would be allowed to build their own shacks while they awaited their turn for a house.