Nelson Mandela Bay ANC councillor Rory Riordan File picture: Mike Holmes The best thing about being under a DA local government is that we no longer have to mow our pavement grass. This is now done for us by a herd of cattle that wander all over, uncontrolled, from Schoenmakerskop to Summerstrand. A pleasant pastoral scene, but deadly dangerous. Mayor Athol Trollip did admit to failings in metropolitan cleanliness in his state of the metro address. It s difficult to deny. For the first nine months of DA government the filth was confined to the poorer wards. Now it is all over Central and spreading fast. Like the uncontrolled livestock. The ANC took Trollip s 100 day speech and cut it down to 37 discernable promises of action the DA government promised to effect in 100 days. We gave it 365 days, and then rated it on how many of Trollip s promises of actions to be completed in 100 days have in fact been completed in 365? The answer is 28.4%. Top posts are no more permanently filled now than they were a year ago. Metro planning is a disaster, with two of the five promised planning documents not yet in existence. The IDP (integrated development plan) is an omnishambles, a rushed high school project. Skills assessments; section 79 committees; economic advisory councils; job desks in Port Elizabeth and Uitenhage; tourism advisory councils; maintenance programmes for all roads, etc; release of financial reports; finalising the municipal organograms; reviews of housing waiting lists; Red Location Museum opened; municipal resorts assessed for viability and, or course We will make our metro clean again . All promises, nothing delivered 29% success against promises. We in the ANC are now in opposition our job is to monitor promises, ensure money is properly spent and publicise failures. Not a nice job, but we are doing it. We have brought out a report on the last year in the municipal world and it makes sober reading. It s available for anyone interested ask your councillor. Our biggest concern is the position of our poor communities in future. All of the poorest wards in the metro are ANC wards and all of the wealthiest are DA. The DA government is increasingly out of synch with these poor wards, and our metro is being pulled dangerously in two directions. There is no future in the middle classes secluding themselves in protected properties in terrified isolation from the poor wards all around. The DA has, for the next three years, provided no money to build new libraries, parks, community or sports facilities, swimming pools, art facilities, outdoor gyms, cycle tracks, heritage sites, etc in our poor areas or anywhere. Its public promises to turn the townships into suburbs is backed by no cash. It is withdrawing hard-won free municipal services benefits. The rates increases are beyond even the middle class and are crushing the poor. All economic catalytic projects budgets are in not only white areas, but rich white areas. Forced removals are back in vogue, justified exactly as the National Party did It is legal, and must be done to prevent total disorder . A year of DA government have now passed. The ANC is not as strong as we want to be but the DA is not as competent as it is pretending to be.