Asanda Hanabe played Nomthandazo in #AfterMarikana Picture: supplied Fort Beaufort-born actress Asanda Hanabe is representing the Eastern Cape on SABC3 s latest reality programme, The Final Cut, airing every Monday on the channel. Hanabe, 27, a stage actress based in East London, is often in the Bay for theatrical productions and was recently seen in After Marikana and Imida Yothando which played at the National Arts Festival and at the PE Opera House. Following nationwide auditions in Pietermaritzburg, East London and Pretoria, 14 of the hottest undiscovered actors were brought to the sets of SABC s drama to face the definitive actors challenge. Each week, the Top 14 actors were put through episodic acting challenges that tested their craft. Challenges included learning a script in 15 minutes, pulling off romantic love scenes, character improvisation and makeovers. Hanabe, who auditioned in East London, said her interest in the performing arts developed when she was at Ntaba Maria Primary School in Grahamstown. She was very active in arts-related matters there and her interest grew when she attended Potchefstroom Girls High School. I studied drama as a subject in school and went on to study it at the Lovedale City College in Alice, but due to circumstances I dropped out, Hanabe said. The actress was also a member of the Steve Biko Foundation in King William s Town where she was involved in outreach programmes. The 13 episodes of melodramatic acting challenges and competitive angst will culminate in the selection of two new faces to grace beloved dramas across SABC s platforms. Hanabe said her time on The Final Cut had been amazing so far and, with only six of the 13 episodes having aired up to now, there is plenty more that viewers could expect. It s a learning experience because I am more of a theatre person and now I have to learn the difference between being on stage and being on television, she said. Hanabe said the show s directors made it easy to understand what she needed to focus on. The mother of one said she had the opportunity to visit the sets of 7de Laan, Isidingo and Skeem Saam, among others. Winning the show would mean a lot because I love what I do and I ve been pursuing a career in acting all my life. It would mean a better life for me and my family, Hanabe said. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share