Sibongile Mani Picture: Supplied/DispatchLIVE Student goes on a lavish spending spree Wild parties, R700 bottles of whisky, designer clothes and R3 000 hair- dos and jetting all over the country. This is what a Walter Sisulu University student blew almost a million rand on in a 73-day spending spree after an accidental R14-million windfall . The usual monthly food allowance for the students is R1 400, but she received, in error, R14.1-million. From the time the money was paid into her account, she spent, on average, R11 000 a day, transforming herself and her friends into glamorous, expensively dressed and accessorised women living the high life. However, her lavish lifestyle led to her downfall. By the time she was bust, she had already blown R818 000, according to Intellimali, the company that administers financial aid allowances at the university. Intellimali said it would investigate a case of fraud.Walter Sisulu University has 30 500 registered students, of whom 18 144 are funded by the National Students Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS). NSFAS spokesman Kagisho Mamabolo said they had written to the university and asked for information about how this happened. The university must account. The university receives the funds from the NSFAS and distributes it to students via a third party, in this case Intellimali. It all started on June 1, when the R14-million landed in the account of student leader Sibongile Mani, 27. Suspicions grew after a Spar receipt was leaked showing a balance of just over R13.6-million in her account Mani is a second-year accountancy student at the Potsdam campus and a branch secretary of Pasma, the student wing of the Pan Africanist Congress (PAC). Her rivals in Sasco became suspicious when she underwent a Cinderella-like transformation from her usual cornrow hairstyle to sporting expensive Peruvian weaves, designer outfits and iPhone 7 cell- phones. They eventually let the cat out of the bag when the lavish parties grew wilder and more frequent and they were not invited. She [Mani] used to sport neat corn-rows and sometimes pushed back her hair, but she had recently started wearing a R3 000 Peruvian weave, one student said. She also bought an iPhone7 and clothes for herself and each of her friends. She suddenly appeared at lectures wearing designer clothes and she pimped up her crew of friends. Samkelo Mqhayi, deputy branch secretary of Sasco and SRC Student Support officer, said he was the one who had outed Mani. She threw surprise birthday parties for her friends and showered them with expensive gifts and she used some of the money to fly to events like the Durban July and managed to buy front-row seats for televised events. Suspicions grew after a SPAR receipt was leaked showing a balance of just over R13.6-million in her account. Then I called the NSFAS offices to check if this was true and the NSFAS confirmed that the initial amount was R14-million. Another Sasco source said it was when Pasma surpassed them by hosting the coolest and most extravagant parties, where expensive alcohol was quaffed, that they uncovered the truth. We are the ruling student movement, so we didn t understand how come they held such extravagant parties. He said the cheapest liquor served at the parties had been Johnny Walker Gold, which costs R700 a bottle. Sasco branch chairman Zolile Zamisa said: We are shocked by this. Not so long ago, we were protesting for thousands of students who were left without funding due to a shortage of funds. [Yet] she was living a lavish lifestyle, hosting birthday parties for her friends at up-market champagne clubs and other expensive hangouts. How R818 000 was spent in 73 days remains a mystery. NSFAS food allowances are not paid in cash. The amount is loaded onto a student card and works as a voucher. However, some students manage to exchange the voucher for cash by striking deals with certain shops. WSU spokeswoman Yonela Tukwayo said the food and book allowances could only be spent at specific merchants associated with the university so the university would investigate how the student had been- able to spend the way she did. Intellimali chief executive MichaelAnsell said: Legal action will be taken against the student. He said a forensic investigator had been appointed. Mani told the Daily Dispatch: It is very clear that I didn t make the error, so call WSU and NSFAS. In a Facebook status posted early yesterday morning, she said she had reported the error to the relevant authorities. Today my personal life has become a social media scandal, I have been named and shamed in public, she wrote. Today I am a bad person, a person who has stolen the money of students. With that being said, and being named a thief, but as we all know in every story there is truth and there are lies with the very same story. She said she was not denying anything and hoped to tell her side of the story. In a follow-up call, Mani agreed to a meeting but then failed to show up.Her flatmates at her single room residence said she had gone to ground and they had not seen her since the story broke. Her classmates said she was not at lectures and had deactivated her Facebook account.However, there has been a flood of Facebook images posted by some of the students, some of them screengrabs from Mani s Facebook posts, which show her holding air tickets aloft, making toasts at parties, with beautiful, large cakes. Her res mates said Mani had undergone a drastic change in lifestyle. We all knew that her allowance was more than ours, but no one was bold enough to ask her. Tukwayo said: There are rules to how the money should be used and when students use funds for anything besides books, the account is suspended. She said Mani would have to repay the money. NSFAS spokesman Mamabolo said this incident was further evidence that the NSFAS payment system called S-bux needed to be centralised. The S-bux system is being used at 18 other institutions across the country. Tukwayo however said the erroneous R14-million payment to one student had not affected other students who were meant to receive NSFAS payments. All students who were supposed to receive their money did receive their money. This didn t negatively affect any students she said. Additional reporting by Sino Majangaza, Sisipho Zamxaka and TimesLIVE