The post-Polokwane ANC s policy of turning the ANC into being the vehicle of wealth accumulation for the leadership, its inner circle of crooked business persons, close families and the dominant faction reminds me of the classic isiXhosa fictional book, Umkhonto Ka Tshiwo by A P Ngani. The book tells a story of how a thriving nation was nearly wiped off the face of the earth by a king who wanted his traditional healer, Dubulegeqa, to heal his sick daughter. After seeing that the child was not recovering and was wasting away, he instructed Dubulegeqa to do anything to find the person responsible for his daughter s illness. The instruction to the killers, Magwaza and Khwane, was to kill the witch or witches, including their entire families. After more than 20 MPs voted in favour of the motion to sack Jacob Zuma, the ANC finds itself in the same tragic predicament as Tshiwo in the book. The mood in the Gupta camp currently is that the ANC must move fast and act swiftly against those who are said to have betrayed the state capture and corruption projects. It is no secret that some of the best brains of the former glorious ANC are among those who voted in support of the motion of no confidence in Zuma. The Gupta network has already identified key figures they accuse of being ringleaders of the humiliation of their projects. This witch-hunt is certainly going to blow the ANC into unrecognisable political smithereens. Since giving sound advice to the Gupta-controlled ANC is viewed as treason, nothing is going to stop them from their self-destructive path. Being fortunate, in that I know that those that they target are the finest sons and daughters of this land, it can only be said it is indeed a tragedy that things could degenerate to this appalling situation. Most of the targeted MPs excelled during the liberation struggle, in all aspects. Expelling, victimising, humiliating and harming them will be the final nail in the coffin that the Guptas constructed for the ANC. Let s look at the scenario portrayed in Ngani s 1970 story. The killers were offered an added incentive, that they must share all the assets of the culprit/s among themselves. The community in the village was excited by this decision since to them the killing of witches was good riddance . Little did they know that the illness was not going to abate after all the known witches were quickly wiped out. They did not anticipate that the ukuvumisa (sniffing) of the witches was going to come to them. Through this process of eliminating the undesirables unfairly, the process was coming fast to everyone. Starting with the least liked people, the purge ended with wiping out the best brains and talents, that included farmers, heroes, poets, eloquent speakers and music composers of the nation. No improvement was noticeable in the child s illness, to the point that Khwane and Magwaza started to listen to their consciences. At a certain point they saw the futility of this action and decided not to continue the culling of their own people, since the nation was being totally depleted to the point that it became vulnerable to invasion by the surrounding hostile tribes. Zuma s ANC modus operandi and that of Tshiwo s differ only in tactics for now. Zuma s brigade is smarter (for now) to a limited extent, in that they do not kill their opponents physically and directly (as yet). However, in KwaZulu-Natal the picture is different and ugly. That method used in the book wouldn t have worked in today s modern world, as it worked in Stalin s Soviet Union, Mao Tse-Tung s China, Idi Amini s Uganda and PW Botha s South Africa. The ANC opted for a soft and debilitatingly cruel method of dealing with its deemed opponents. It purges, sidelines and isolates its best brains. At the time of the Polokwane fiasco, state-owned enterprises (SOEs) were running pretty well, while some operated below average. Problems then were restricted to managerial incompetence rather than the wholesale fleecing of these enterprises for the benefit of the ruling clique. Board members were appointed across the country on their merits rather than on their political loyalties. That was the reason why some of them were starting to post some positive results. Board members were being held accountable. Rules and governance issues were highly emphasised. Those were the days when corporate governance was treated as a gospel by executives, both in the private and public sectors. The fear of the effective and competent Scorpions prosecutorial entity made everyone deadly scared of breaking the law. As everyone knows, after Polokwane, the scrapping of the Scorpions was the only resolution of that conference that was swiftly implemented with German precision. The outcome is there for everyone to see. Thieves who steal state assets are not being prosecuted. It s a free-for-all circus of mass looting, since there is no accountability of any kind. Those who raised their voices inside and outside the ruling clique have been and are being condemned, intimidated and threatened. Ngani s conclusion is talking to the MPs who defied the party instruction, who acted like the brave Khwane and Magwaza, by saving many lives under unhappy circumstances, to save the nation from the real threat. Nazo izenzo zoxolo ezingundoqo kwiinkokeli zokwenyani (Those are the peaceful deeds of genuine leaders). About those who voted to retain a flawed, unfit and an improper president, we are reminded of the title of the Gibson Kente play, How Long. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share