There is a great saying in Afrikaans, which needs no translation. It is beautifully descriptive and it goes like this: Gaan vlieg in jou moer in well, go to hell. It is my newly adopted attitude towards South Africa s metered taxi associations and the brute and thuggish approach of their drivers to Uber and the thousands of people who rely on the company s quick cheap and efficient service to get around our cities. My attitude changed to this extreme outlook on Wednesday, as I left the Sandton Gautrain station and approached an Uber driver who was waiting for me. As I walked towards the cab driver, he began hooting frantically and pointing to something behind me. Turning around, I saw four men approaching me at a pace, screaming and yelling at me to voetsek , ordering me away from the car. Without introductions, I knew who they were the much-feared Sandton self-regulated meter taxi guards who rule with iron fists threats and steel poles. The Uber driver was stuck. Vehicles had stopped in front of him at the red traffic light. I moved quickly to get into the cab, only to be shoved back by two of the men. You will not ride in this Uber. You will walk or use our taxis one of them screamed at me. My response: F*ck off. This is my Uber ride and I am getting in. The two became aggressive pushing me against the Uber taxi before shoving me away. Something snapped. I can t quite remember what it was, but my usual calm demeanour was gone. It was replaced with a blind rage. As these thugs banged on the passenger door keeping me from getting in another hoodlum was trying to open the driver s door. I ran to him and pushed in between him and the Uber driver. Motorists were driving past avoiding the confrontation. Security guards only a few metres away did nothing. The Uber driver s attacker pushed me against the door. This is our rank, he shouted. Uber drivers know that they can t be within 500m of our rank he screamed, pointing at a series of yellow lines painted on the road. I screamed back: That s a no parking zone. The metered taxi guards response: Yes but it s our rank and Uber can t be here. They cannot park here they are illegal they have no permits and we are the bosses, they said. That s the agreement with the Department of Transport. By this time the Uber driver who did not want to be named, out of fear had made his escape parking further away. Pushing me away another metered taxi guard demanded that I leave Sandton and our taxi rank. My response: Gaan vlieg in jou moer in. Tempers flared and pushing continued until another guard intervened and asked me to leave the area for my own safety. My response was that I was calling the Uber driver I was going to catch the Uber and that they had better leave me alone. As I spoke to the Uber driver on the phone and walked to the centre island before making my way towards his cab a guard was following me. As I climbed in another metered taxi driver who had followed me in his vehicle blocked us with his vehicle hurling abuse towards us. The Uber driver pleaded with me not to do anything. Leave it. I know him. We are both from Limpopo. I will get him to leave, he insisted. To say I was shocked is an understatement. That thugs whose concept of the freedom of movement and choice is non-existent can dare to think that they can dictate what form of transport anyone can use, is unbelievable. Yes I have written on previous attacks against Uber drivers. I have heard the horror stories and listened to Uber drivers who have given me lifts before about their fears over whether they will get home alive to their families. What is happening is unbelievable. More despairingly there is a glaring lack of police presence around busy taxi collection zones in particular Gautrain stations. Yes, the police park a vehicle outside some of the stations and other busy zones but they seem to enjoy doing just that parking off, seemingly doing little. The thought of being held to ransom does not sit well with me. For me, it was time to stand up and say, gaan vlieg in jou moer in .