Springbok flyhalf Elton Jantjies Picture: Werner Hills Unpredictable Pumas won&#8217;t be a walkover, Jantjies warns The first 20 minutes will be vital for the Springboks if they want to get their Rugby Championship campaign off to a winning start against Argentina in Port Elizabeth on Saturday, flyhalf Elton Jantjies said. The Springbok pivot has warned that if the Pumas get off to a fast start at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium their confidence will grow in what is expected to be a tight test contest. Jantjies s boot, and his ability to keep the Springboks on the front foot, will be key against an Argentine side who will aim to unsettle the home side. We are going to have to have a good start against Argentina, Jantjies said. If they have a good start, they then build confidence through that. The first 20 minutes will be key for us. Jantjies was one of the stars when the Springboks cruised to a 3-0 win over France in June and his form will have a major say in how South Africa fare in the Rugby Championship. It is all about ourselves on Saturday, so whatever plan we have we must execute it well. They bring something different to the park because they are not a normal side. Argentina bring the unexpected thing like a quick throw or a tap and we will have to be alert. In what could turn out to be tight scoreboard game, Jantjies s radar will have to be finely tuned. My goal-kicking is about me trusting my body and technique, the 27-year-old said. It is something that you put in a lot of work on, repeating the same routine the whole time. You just believe yourself when you kick and let it become an instinctive thing. There are obviously a few things I have been working on every day when I go out to training. Like making sure I make the right decision at the right time, whether it is in the attacking or defensive zone. So I have challenged myself to make the right decisions and create some space for my outside backs. I want to create for the guys inside and outside of me. Jantjies said even a passionate 46000-strong Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium crowd would not help the Springboks win the test. It is nice to have a lot of support and people behind you, but that does not win us the game. We are going to have to pitch up on Saturday and we will have to play for 80 minutes and it will not be easy against Argentina. We will be well prepared for Saturday. We had a good week last week, and also building into the game this week as well. Argentina have a good set- piece and I think they will challenge us in the scrums and lineouts. Their first two phases on defence are also very good, so we will have to be sharp in terms of our momentum, Jantjies said. It is still unclear who his back-up on the bench will be. With Handre Pollard busy completing his final phase of rehabilitation, 20-year-old Curwin Bosch could be included on the bench. Springbok assistant coach Franco Smith, however, gave nothing away when asked about who would cover for Jantjies. He did, however, say he had been extremely impressed with what he had seen so far from the young Sharks star. Curwin is still young, and obviously has a lot of further development ahead of him, but what has really struck me is that he is extremely coachable and approachable, he said. We know he has an extraordinary kicking game and is a real threat, but it s important for him to be afforded the opportunity to find his feet at all levels of senior rugby. 