Northern Cape Finance, Economic Development and Tourism MEC MacCollen Jack, left, and that province s Roads and Public Works MEC Mxolisi Sokatsha at the Coega Development Corporation yesterday Picture: Brian Witbooi A win-win situation is the expected outcome of a memorandum of agreement signed in Port Elizabeth yesterday between the Northern Cape Economic Development Agency and the Coega Development Corporation. This is according to Northern Cape Finance, Economic Development and Tourism MEC MacCollen Jack. We expect our partnership and cooperation to result in a win-win situation, he said. Jack had revealed that plans were being implemented to establish a new deep-water port at Boegoe Bay near Port Nolloth in the Northern Cape. His comment was in response to questions on the effect the new port would have on the thousands of tons of Northern Cape-mined manganese ore shipped through the Port Elizabeth harbour yearly. The manganese, which generates significat revenue for Transnet National Ports Authority, has long been railed into Port Elizabeth and stored at an ore dump in the harbour before being shipped out. The ore dumps, along with a fuel tank farm, are widely viewed as stumbling blocks to the establishment of a waterfront development in the city. Responding to years of requests from organised business and other interested parties, the Ports Authority has committed to relocate both the manganese and fuel operations to the Bay s deep-water second harbour, Port of Ngqura. Jack was accompanied by a highlevel delegation that included two Northern Cape mayors and two other MECs. He said their visits to Port Elizabeth and East London were directed at learning about the successes and mistakes made during the establishment of the industrial development zones (IDZs) in the two Eastern Cape metros. Coega Development Corporation operates the country s first, and award-winning, IDZ which is now undergoing a status change to a special economic zone at Coega, bordering the Port of Ngqura. We are addressing economic growth and challenges like unemployment in the Northern Cape, Jack said. The deep-water port is one of the ways to address these challenges. We are also establishing a special economic zone in Upington which we expect will focus on mining and minerals-related investments, along with other sectors such as agri-processing. These are among the reasons for our visit here, so we can establish best practices and can learn and not repeat mistakes when we implement these projects. Asked whether a new deep-water port would affect manganese and other commodities shipped through Port Elizabeth, Jack said: We expect our partnership and cooperation [with the CDC] to result in a win-win situation. We believe everyone can benefit. Jack also revealed that his province was considering developing the town of Colesberg which borders the Eastern Cape as a city due to its strategic central location in the country. He acknowledged that further potential economic opportunities specifically around the extensive shale gas deposits which are believed to straddle both the Northern Cape and sections of the Eastern Cape were being considered. We need to find a balance on the shale gas issue. We don t want to pollute water, but we also want to create employment. We will need a balanced approach, he said, also acknowledging a potential role for the CDC in the gas considerations. The Coega and Port of Ngqura area is being established as a major regional gas hub. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share