The alleged illegal parking bays in Chapel Street in front of the popular Phoenix Hotel Picture: Eugene Coetzee Spots demarcated for municipal staff use raise hotel owner s ire A squabble over parking space in a busy city centre street has led to allegations that the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality illegally usurped public bays to the chagrin of those trying to find a spot to park. The eight parking bays in congested Chapel Street have raised the ire of Phoenix Hotel owner Warwick Ofsowitz, who said he had been sent from pillar to post trying to stop what he claimed was the illegal demarcation of the bays for use by municipal staff. The municipality insists it followed due process. Ofsowitz said his hotel patrons and staff as well as South African Revenue Service employees and taxpayers visiting the SARS offices were being disadvantaged. In June last year, Ofsowitz had a meeting with Mandela Bay Development Agency (MBDA) officials to address the parking issue. It emerged in e-mails to Ofsowitz from the MBDA that the parking bays were allegedly painted and reserved for municipal employees without the go-ahead from the municipal traffic department. In checking among ourselves as to who authorised this arrangement, traffic [department] had no knowledge of it nor the MBDA, an agency employee said. In other e-mail correspondence, which The Herald has seen, a municipal engineer told a traffic official: So it is crystal clear that no one was contacted when this decision was taken because this [municipal official] Jacques says they did not need to speak to Phoenix [Hotel] because the road infrastructure belongs to the municipality. Very arrogant indeed! Ofsowitz said the alleged illegal parking was not limited to the front of the hotel as other parking bays had also been painted in St Mary s Terrace at the rear of the hotel. The bays are painted over a solid red line which means that section of road should not be obstructed. The parking bays are causing a major safety hazard, Ofsowitz said. For example, if the back of the hotel catches alight, the fire brigade can t access the back of the building because of the illegal parking. Not to mention the people in the line at SARS who can t find parking. I fail to see why the municipality has privileged parking whereas my patrons and employees as well as SARS employees have to compete for the remaining spots, Ofsowitz said. However, municipal spokesman Zikhona Captain said the authority followed due process in demarcating parking bays in Chapel Street and St Mary s Terrace for the municipal officials working in Algoa House. The number of parking bays increased with the layout change a few years ago. However, it appears employees from other businesses use the bays [by] the day and the general public frequents the area as well. The municipality sympathises with business owners in the CBD that are adversely affected by the parking space constraints, Captain said. However, the safety and security directorate, through metro police and traffic services, is working around the clock to ensure that road users in the CBD use the available parking according to the rules of the road. 