Cara-Lisa Sham is the figure behind Caralishious, a holistic nutrition and wellness hub dedicated to balanced living through the nourishment of mind and body. Cara-Lisa aims to show her readers you how to optimise your health with deliciously simple recipes, nutrition tips and holistic living techniques. I understand the dangers of deprivation, fad- dieting and over-exercising because I ve been there. I want to teach people how to eat with a deep sense of peace, enjoyment and gratitude by choosing nourishing foods that will promote a healthy happy body and mind. Creating my blog and my health foods range has enabled me to heal deeply, and together these elements now forge a platform through which I am able to inspire and encourage health and healing in others too, says Cara-Lisa. Her Caralishious blog offers healthy recipes, nutrition advice, exercise tips and simple and sustainable ways to obtain and maintain lasting health. With the warmer weather upon us, light and healthy meals that are easily digested are a great way to keep your body nourished, radiant and glowing from the inside out. Chickpeas are a fantastic source of vegetable protein and are also super low GI which means you will feel satisfied for hours after enjoying them. This fresh and flavourful combo is a great lunch or dinner option for the whole family to enjoy! This recipe serves three to four and is ready within 25 minutes. Chickpea, Mushroom and Wilted Spinach Bake Ingredients 1 can organic chickpeas punnet cherry tomatoes 1 cup fresh rocket 1 punnet button mushrooms thinly sliced 3 cups baby spinach cup freshly squeezed lemon juice 1 tsp. oregano tsp. thyme 3 tbsp olive oil 1 tsp crushed garlic 1 tbsp zaatar (available at woolworths) Himalayan pink salt to taste Black pepper to taste Grated Parmesan (optional) Instructions Preheat oven to 180 degrees celsius. Turn a stove ring on to medium heat, add olive oil to medium sized frying pan and allow to heat up. Add olive oil garlic, thyme, oregano and salt and pepper and saut for 3-4 minutes until garlic is lightly browned. Add mushrooms and fry for 2-3 minutes until mushrooms begin to soften. Now add spinach and continue to saut for 2-3 minutes until spinach begins to wilt. Add chickpeas, lemon, zaatar, and cherry tomatoes and continue to saut further for 1 minute. Remove from heat. Top with grated parmesan, and place frying pan in the oven. Allow to bake for 7-10 minutes, watching closely to avoid burning. Remove from oven, garnish with fresh rocket and serve in the pan. Enjoy as is, or alongside your favourite protein. For a little creaminess, drizzle with tahini top with some fresh guacamole. &nbsp;