Corporal punishment continues to rear its head in our schools, with The Herald reporting yesterday that a Bay principal had admitted to hitting at least three matric pupils out of sheer frustration. The law is very clear when it comes to the physical punishment of juveniles and that is why the actions of Kwamagxaki High School head Mwezi Qomfo cannot be condoned. But, at the same time, one can appreciate the difficulties teachers and principals such as Qomfo must face at the coalface of education every day. Children are frequently unruly and disrespectful; they neglect their homework and, when opportunities are created for them to catch up, they have no interest in doing their part. To make matters worse, some parents expect the teachers to do all the disciplining, essentially abdicating their own responsibility. These classroom battles happen against the backdrop of falling pass rates and ever-dwindling opportunities for school leavers, making one understand Qomfo s actions, misguided as they were, to some degree. The veteran teacher and principal was quite simply at his wits end about the failure of several pupils to show up for the school s winter holiday programme. These teachers are giving up their holiday and, ironically, it is the pupils who need the assistance who aren t attending. If these children don t attend these programmes, there is no chance of them passing their exams, he rightly pointed out. Many parents themselves condone the physical punishment of their children at school. But, while hitting should never be resorted to, it is clear that other more acceptable forms of punishment such as detention are just not working any more. What is urgently needed is a fresh approach so teachers can get the best results out of their pupils without turning to humiliating and unconstitutional measures. One option would be to bring together educational experts and psychologists to share ideas, perhaps in the form of workshops, on how to improve classroom discipline in healthier, more constructive ways. We need to teach our children to value themselves, their schools and, ultimately, the life-changing privilege that an education can afford them. Teachers themselves should also be an example of the kind of values they want to engender in their classrooms.