An orca head-butts a common dolphin into the air during a hunt off Cape Recife Picture: Johannes Muhlfeld Tourists were treated to a sensational sighting at sea this week as killer whales in Algoa Bay hunted down a pod of dolphins. Tuesday s encounter with the orcas left Dr Johannes Muhlfeld, a medical surgeon in Cologne, Germany, bursting with excitement. It was absolutely mindblowing, he said. We had hoped for dolphins and perhaps to see orcas, but to see this hunt was absolutely amazing. The encounter took place about 30km south of Cape Recife during a Dive Expert Tours excursion, led by owner Rainer Schimpf. The drama started when they came upon two large pods of common dolphins, approaching from different directions, Schimpf said. There were about 100 dolphins altogether. They seemed very excited, like they were very pleased to see each other. Then they suddenly fled in all directions. Recognising the signs from previous killer whale encounters, Schimpf knew the giant predators could be in the area and everyone was briefed to keep their eyes peeled for the tell-tale big black upright fins. When they eventually found them, the killer whales had already caught up to the dolphins, Schimpf said. They like surprising their prey so they were diving deep and coming up fast under the dolphins, [head-butting] them into the air in an effort to slow them down or knock them unconscious, he said. The dolphins that were caught were then tossed around and dragged down. The seabed was about 200m below at that point but the visibility was about 30m. The party on board saw two of the dolphins being devoured. It was amazing to see, Schimpf said. The encounter was further proof of Algoa Bay s status as a southern hemisphere hotspot for orcas as they were sighted here every year, he said. Orcas hunting dolphins have been recorded a number of times before around the world, but the first recording of this phenomenon was in Algoa Bay. On May 5 2008, The Herald ran a story detailing the very first sighting, also during a Dive Expert tour. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share