The metro s political head of human settlements, Nqaba Bhanga, with some roof trusses recovered after houses in the area were looted in January. Behind him are the controversial incomplete RDP homes in NU 29 Motherwell File picture: Eugene Coetzee High-level commission mooted to probe corruption in housing After years of claims of rampant corruption and maladministration involving RDP housing projects, the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality wants to set up a commission headed by a judge to lead a wide-scale probe into the beleaguered human settlements department. The commission will comprise a team of independent legal minds and experienced investigators to dig up dirt on those selling houses and sites, and colluding with contractors. The terms of reference and details of exactly how the commission would work still have to be ironed out. Announcing the plan to establish the commission on Thursday, the city s political head of human settlements, Nqaba Bhanga, said they wanted to get to the bottom of who was responsible for the corruption once and for all. It would need the blessing of the full council before the commission is set up, although the city s legal department has already been instructed to develop the terms of reference. Bhanga hopes the outcome of the commission will ultimately pave the way for Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu to consider giving the municipality back the function of building houses. Currently, the Eastern Cape department of human settlements is responsible for building houses in the Bay and the majority of projects are managed by the housing development agency. He said they wanted the commission to be made up of independent people, preferably from outside the Bay, with a judge or legal expert in charge. Residents, contractors and officials with information about corruption and maladministration would then be called upon to come forward. Our city has always been in the news for officials selling sites and houses, Bhanga said. Former human settlements political head councillor [Buyisile] Mkavu ceased to exist when he started to investigate things that went wrong, and so the state of corruption continues. We are going to investigate and clean this city. There have been other investigations here and there but nothing tangible, Bhanga said. The commission idea was approved by the DA, ANC and EFF at Thursday s human settlements committee meeting. For the full story read Weekend Post, or get the complete newspaper, including comics, classifieds, crosswords and back editions in our e-Edition. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share