Building is in progress at the Humerail Business Park, which will accommodate the offices of a number of major companies. Photo: Brian Witbooi. Commanding some of the best ocean views and among the highest property values in Nelson Mandela Bay, Humerail is emerging as Port Elizabeth s boomtown, with home owners, business and blue-chip corporates sinking millions of rands into the suburb. East London-based property owners and developers JH Group which is managing the next phase of Humerail s R160-million Waterfront Business Park is at the forefront of the rapid upgrade of the suburb, which less than a decade ago consisted largely of modest homes built by the former South African Railways Transnet, which incorporated the former South Africa Railways, is still the largest single landowner in the suburb and not only owns the land leased from the parastatal to establish the Waterfront Business Park, but also, along with other properties and buildings, the sprawling Humepark property which, until recently, housed the well-known Humepark Club and pub and a caravan park with permanent residents. Underpinning the investment into Humerail, which now boasts multimillion-rand properties and homes, are expectations that Transnet s contentious fuel tank farm and manganese ore dumps will be relocated from the Port Elizabeth Harbour to Coega within the next few years. The removal of the tanks and the manganese will allow the development of a much-anticipated waterfront in the harbour precinct, over which Humerail will enjoy uninterrupted views. Speaking from East London, JH Group property manager Eugene McNamara said the business park, including the two new buildings currently under construction there, represented an investment of R160-million. Construction of the energy-ef ficient buildings, with double-glazed facade and harbour views, began during April 2013. Joining a number of reputable businesses and organisations already established in the greater Humerail area, the Waterfront Business Park has attracted premium grade office tenants which include DSV, TUV Rheinland and Investec Bank, SASFIN, CA Trust and Client CareCare. These companies occupy the first three buildings within the office park development, which will ultimately have eight buildings. Construction is under way on the fourth building and on the eighth. Construction on the other three will commence when tenants have been signed up for the sites, McNamara said. For the full story read Weekend Post, or get the complete newspaper, including comics, classifieds, crosswords and back editions in our e-Edition. &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share