Friends, from left, Siyamthanda Habana, Nolubabalo Mrwebi and Lelethu Mgcuwa attend the Mandela Bay Book Fair Picture: Ivor Markman Friends, from left, Bev Gaia, Faye Gatley, Jenni Gault and Lowrezel Jansen van Vuuren enjoy the Boost Creative Solutions talent showcase Picture: Gillian McAinsh Hostess Niqui Cloete-Barass, centre, welcomes friends Mimi Rupp, left, and Phrosne Phillips to Boost Creative Solutions talent showcase Picture: Gillian McAinsh BWA members , from left, Jane Stevenson, Caroline Morgan and Cheryl Reynoldsnetwork at a mentors&#8217; &#8216;thank you breakfast&#8217; Picture: Gillian McAinsh BWA Mentorship task team members say thank you to their volunteers over breakfast at the Courtyard Picture: Gillian McAinsh Braemore Lundall-Sauls and Michelle von Hoffmann attend the SOS Children&#8217;s Village &#8216;Denim and Diamonds fundraiser Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Guests, from left, Naadirah Abader, Audrey Baatjies and Fay Rochman at the SOS Children&#8217;s Village &#8216; Denim and Diamonds fundraiser Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Hello darlings, it s me again, the sassy Skinnerbek whom you trust to bring you the spiciest of local gossip. Last Saturday I was one of the few who got to witness Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas giving a speech at NMMU. I can t really say I was focused awfully much on what he was saying. Instead I was admiring my ultimate crush and am happy to report I had a front row view. I definitely liked what I saw and it was almost as if there was no other person in the room except me and Mr J. After the speech and with stars in my eyes, I headed on to New Brighton to Chief Nqoko s Place for the SABC1 Activate after party. The likes of Generations actor Vuyo Dabula were looking mighty fine alongside Uzalo s Nkosinathi Maphalala. Dabula plays one of the baddest guys on South African television but who cares, he is hot and that Mohawk suits him to a T. With dashing Mr Jonas now just a distant memory, I would have been a much happier girl had Mr D for Dynamite only looked my way a little more often. People braved the heavy (though very welcome) rains we received on Saturday evening for a chance to party with the heartthrobs. OMG gossipers, how could I forget this: Last Sunday yours truly partied with the GwaraGwara king himself, DJ Bongz, at Kwanos Meat Corner for the Sunday Tshisa Nyama Experience. He was a jolly good sport and showed patrons all the moves that have placed him firmly back at the top as one of the country s favourite house DJs. With Bongz were Big Nuz s Danger alongside L Vovo, who is also known for his killer dance moves. Your gossip gal has been keeping up the blistering pace this week. As you read this I ll be winging my way back from Jozi after a television channel shindig, certainly to be followed by lots of weekend shenanigans. Until next time darlings, ciao for now! Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share