Port Elizabeth-born model and entrepreneur, Delon le Roux, is making waves in Korea and may win a lucrative contract as the face of fashion in the Asian country. In January, Le Roux was chosen as one of the faces for Korea Style Week after a selection process which narrowed 400 models down to 30 before reaching the final 11. All finalists are now in the running for a lucrative one-year contract as the face of the COEX, one of the largest malls in Korea. I m currently No 2 in the poll, trailing by only nine votes, Le Roux said from his new home in Seoul. Never allow anyone to attempt to dilute your dreams. I ve always be tenacious in achieving my goals so when one door closes, I climb through the window. Korea Style Week starts on March March and continues until Sunday. The public chooses the winner via total votes across all platforms: Facebook, Instagram and likes on the individual model pages. Voting is now open and will close at 12 midnight on Sunday. Vote for Delon at the Korea Style Week website A regular fixture at Seoul Fashion Week, Le Roux is often snapped as one of Seoul s most recognisable Fapi (fashion people). I love classic cuts but I love patterns, prints, and colour and mixing those elements in unique and unexpected ways. When people meet me and I m wearing loud prints then they know I m from South Africa, he said. This was no overnight success, though, I have always been a work in progress, says the colourful dandy, whose androgynous style has seen him featured in several photoshoots. Le Roux also has been booked for the catwalk at Seoul Fashion Week later this year. Le Roux started his foray into fashion 15 years ago while still a teenager. He has dabbled in many areas, including writing fashion features for glossy magazines, such as Marie Claire and Dossier and SID Magazine in the UK. He moved into event management to further his passion for working with people. The public relations graduate left Port Elizabeth in 2011 to teach English in Korea and has been globe-trotting every since, with visits home in between. I didn t get here on my own. I believe in mutually beneficial collaboration, he said. After graduation and starting my own events management company, I moved away from being in front of the camera. I focused more on skills development and providing others with an opportunity to truly showcase their talents. I organised workshops, pageants and fashion shows, for NMMU and Damelin as well as Cape Recife High School which is always such a rewarding experience. He has good memories of Port Elizabeth. I ve been fortunate enough to have had some amazing local mentors. I first considered getting into the industry after a family friend, Lee-Ann Sayster, who was an extremely popular and successful model at the time, told me that she thought I had something special. She taught me that an opportunity lost is an opportunity wasted. I worked with Carmenita Redcliffe extensively, even shadowing her for a month in a corporate environment. I learned so much from her and I admire her work ethic. She is vivacious and passionate and in many ways I modelled my professional persona on her. Before emigrating, I worked with Danelle Bhana-Coetzee (Face of Walmer Park) and Gail Brown of Sophisticate Models on various pageants and functions. During this time, I realised the importance of reputation and collaboration. It was such a pleasure working with them because of their professionalism and credibility. However, the travel bug bit and he emigrated to South Korea s capital city, Seoul, to pursue other avenues in 2011. Since then he has been travelling the world, but now calls the Far East his home. Korea has been good to me and although not always easy, I ve been afforded so many amazing opportunities, Le Roux said. As well as reporting on Seoul Fashion Week in 2012, last year he featured in Boda magazine, South Korea s largest fashion quarterly. In addition, he s worked with photographers such as Bryan Ku, who worked on America s Next Top Model during filming in Seoul. He has also had stints with HimChan Chun, resident celebrity photographer at Vogue Korea. I love fashion week, but the real show is always outside, he said. Street style provides people an opportunity to express their individuality and interpret trends in new ways. Most recently, Le Roux has been signed with NFM Global Model Management, and after seeing him on set the CEO, offered him a position as pose instructor and mentor for new models joining the agency. His androgynous look also landed him as the face of the Lovuee F/W 2016 Campaign by New York- based, Seoul-born, designer Soyee Kweon. Vote for Delon at the Korea Style Week website Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share