START OF REHAB: Veterinarian Nantarika Chansue assists Piggy Bank with her rehabilitation at the Veterinary Medical Aquatic Animal Research Centre in Bangkok yesterday Picture: Supplied A sea turtle dubbed Piggy Bank after swallowing nearly 1 000 coins started a rehabilitation programme yesterday following the removal of the treasure trove by Thai surgeons. The hapless reptile underwent a seven-hour operation in Bangkok last week to remove 5kg of coins from her digestive tract. The story of her plight and successful operation went viral. Yesterday, the 25-year-old turtle, whose real name is Omsin, paddled around a small pool with relative ease. Nantarika Chansue, a vet in charge of Chulalongkorn Hospital s aquatic research centre, said she was overjoyed by just how much movement Omsin had gained in her flippers since the operation. Before this she didn t use her left side at all, because every time she moved it probably made it painful, she said. Look at her now, she s using all the limbs very effectively. The troubled reptile lived for two decades in a small public park in Chonburi province. Visitors tossed coins into her pond seeking to make merit or good luck. Nantarika said media reports were making Thais think twice about throwing coins into ponds where animals live. Because of this, all the ponds are being cleaned up, she said. They are pulling out all the coins and putting signs up not to throw coins. Chulalongkorn vets say they hope Omsin will be able to return to the sea given she could easily live for another 60 years. First they will teach her how to swim and then how to dive a task that requires her to build up lung strength. Then they will take her for swims in the ocean using a specially designed turtle-leash that allows researchers to reel her back in. Asked whether she will know how to swim in the sea, Nantarika said: Of course. It s like us being in prison for 20 years, you know, we still know how to live our lives, so I believe that the best way is to let her go. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share