Parliament&#8217;s communications portfolio committee moved at breakneck speed yesterday to finalise the list of candidates to serve on the board of the SABC on an interim basis. The committee had called an urgent meeting to discuss the names put forward for the fivemember interim board. MPs agreed to nominate former board member Krish Naidoo, media veterans Mathatha Tsedu and John Mattison, Febe Potgieter-Gqubule and Khanyisile Kweyama. Naidoo is one of the two nonexecutive directors who abruptly resigned from the doomed SABC board during a parliamentary meeting in October, saying it was dysfunctional. As a parliamentary ad hoc committee investigated the crisis at the SABC, all board members resigned late last year, leaving the public broadcaster without a board. The names of the interim board members will be forwarded to the National Assembly for adoption. The board will be in place for not more than six months pending the appointment of a permanent board. The interim board is expected to play a key role in sorting out the mess at the public broadcaster. Its first task will undoubtedly be to implement the recommendations by parliament s ad hoc committee report on SABC governance lapses. The recommendations include a forensic investigation into dodgy SABC deals, contracts, salary increases and bonus payments. It is also likely to look into the validity of the memorandum of incorporation, review editorial policies and ensure that competent executives including a permanent chief executive, chief operating officer and chief financial officer are appointed. The ANC parliamentary chief whip s office said: The interim board should restore stability by taking decisive action against those SABC executives who failed to execute their fiduciary duties, who flouted the rules and who threatened and manipulated the thousands of good people working at the SABC. The interim board must also ensure that a forensic investigation is conducted [so that] those found to have collapsed the SABC be held to account. &#8211; BDlive Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share