Andile Lungisa. Picture: Vathiswa Ruselo / Gallo Images / Sowetan Nelson Mandela Bay ANC chairman Andile Lungisa was in Johannesburg yesterday, where he is believed to have been lobbying the support of some of the party s national leaders ahead of a crucial meeting of its top brass this weekend. Lungisa, who has defied the instructions of the ANC top six, party secretary-general Gwede Mantashe and Eastern Cape leaders to step down, hopes to win favour with the party s national executive committee (NEC) and get them to endorse his recent election. In dispute is the interpretation of the ANC s constitution, with Mantashe adamant that Lungisa, a member of the provincial executive committee, should not have contested a position in a lower structure. It is unclear if the Lungisa matter which has been in the spotlight over the past two weeks will be on the agenda for discussion at the NEC meeting in Pretoria. Mantashe said yesterday: There will be no Lungisa matter in the ANC NEC. The NEC does not listen to individual member cases. But Bay ANC insiders said Lungisa was trying to get the backing of some NEC members as he expects a report on the Bay elective conference and his election to be tabled for discussion as part of national working committee reports. Lungisa was tight-lipped about the reason he was in Johannesburg and who he was meeting, saying only that it s a very important party matter . The NEC is expected to debate a number of crucial matters at its threeday meeting, including the Sassa grants debacle which led to a damning Constitutional Court judgment against Minister Bathabile Dlamini. Meanwhile, Lungisa who was given until yesterday to resign by Eastern Cape provincial secretary Oscar Mabuyane responded to the directive by saying the matter should be resolved by the NEC. In a strongly worded letter, seen by The Herald, Lungisa told Mabuyane: I am in correspondence with the officials of the NEC, and have expressed my contention to the elastic and arbitrary interpretation of Rule 17.4 of the ANC constitution. The officials through the secretary-general, Cde Gwede Mantashe, indicated that the matter would be referred to the [NEC] for further deliberations and clarity. As a disciplined member of the ANC I have full confidence in the internal processes of the organisation. I [wait] for the process to be concluded. I would also appeal to the comrades of the PEC to await a process initiated by a higher structure and desist from unhelpful and, dare I say, uncomradely threats of disciplinary procedures against myself for a compliance and nuanced political situation. Mabuyane said they would deal with Lungisa s response after the NEC meeting. Meanwhile, support for Lungisa has been pouring in. The ANC Youth League regional task team has thrown its weight behind the embattled regional leader. It is our view that [Lungisa] must not undermine the will of the majority of branches by resigning, RTT convener Luyolo Nqakula said. His resignation must be informed by a directive of no other structure than that of the NEC. What we are confronted with is a constitutional grey area. Any precedent set must be consistent with the organisational constitution. Lungisa has also received the backing of Sasco, and of former ANC Western Cape chairman Marius Fransman and former Bay regional chairman Mike Xego. Xego has called on the organisation to forgive Lungisa but to take to task those who presided over his election. The presiding officer dropped the ball because he had the organisation s constitution and the letter from Mantashe why did he allow Lungisa to stand? Xego said. Fransman criticised Mantashe for the way in which the matter has been handled. He accused Mantashe of failing the movement. I call on Comrade Andile not to despair, Fransman said. I call on you, young man, not to blame the organisation but to realise that individuals being entrusted with critical responsibility can indeed fail the values and esteem of the very offices they hold. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share