Fraud suspect Mark Michaels disappeared minutes before he was due to appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate&#8217;s Court A slick suspected conman, who made a Houdini-like escape from custody in Port Elizabeth two weeks ago, was nabbed in East London after allegedly trying to con another seller on Gumtree. Fraud accused Mark Michaels, 30, left behind a trail of victims of his alleged schemes. In each case, the same method was used. The Hawks confirmed yesterday that Michaels, who also goes by the alias Kenton Marks , was arrested in East London on Saturday night. The Capetonian is being held at the Cambridge police station but has not yet been officially charged. Hawks spokeswoman Anathi Damane said Michaels would appear in the East London Magistrate s Court soon. It was likely he would then be transferred back to Port Elizabeth to face additional charges here. Michaels disappeared from the dock in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate s Court, where he had been waiting to appear for fraud, on March 3. Yesterday, a sales technician from Gonubie alleged that just days after Michaels escaped he had tried to con him out of R160 000. Michaels had responded to his advert on Gumtree for the sale of a BMW 125i. The seller, 33, who did not want to be named as he was worried that Michaels might have accomplices, said he had met Michaels on Wednesday last week and, on Michaels suggestion, had gone to the Fleet Street police station to draw up a sales agreement, a copy of which The Herald has seen. He said his cellphone battery was flat and asked to use my phone to EFT the money. The man said he had then received an SMS, purportedly from First National Bank, showing that the R160 000 was in his account. I tried to log into my internet banking, just to double-check, but battled to connect, he said. I had no reason to doubt him. I had received an SMS from my bank and he was the one who suggested we meet at the police station I mean, what kind of a crook would do that? For the full story read The Herald, or get the complete newspaper, including comics, classifieds, crosswords and back editions in our e-Edition. &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share