Water abusers could be left high and dry if they continue to waste the scarce resource. In a stern warning during a visit to the rapidly depleting Churchill Dam, where the water level is at a woeful 27.13%, Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip said water wasters in the metro could have their supply cut off if they did not reduce their consumption. The highest user in the metro is a household in Bethelsdorp (3 585 kilolitres a month), closely followed by a house in Lorraine (3 263Kl). Grey High is the highest user among the city s schools, with the daily consumption per pupil averaging 367 litres, while lagging in second place is Lwandlekazi Secondary School, with a daily average consumption per pupil of 165l. Asked about possible consequences for water abusers, Trollip said: We have not set out definitive consequences for these people, but we will be having an internal meeting [today] to discuss exactly that. The measures may vary from knocking on people s doors, issuing fines, naming and shaming, to controlled water supply or cutting off the entire water supply. But, at this stage, we have not laid out exactly how we will address the situation. Following the visit to the dam near Kareedouw, Trollip described the visit in a tweet as a sobering experience. Also present at the dam were mayoral committee member for infrastructure and engineering Annette Lovemore, director of water treatment works and dams Joseph Tsatsire, his deputy Paul du Plessis, water and sanitation director Barry Martin and infrastructure and engineering head Walter Shaidi. The sight of the dam s murky brown water, which seemed to barely rise above the 10m mark, brought gasps from those present. The dam walls, almost completely exposed as they reflected the sun s rays, revealed a paralysing drop to a dry concrete floor on one side. Being here [Churchill Dam] brings the situation into stark reality, Trollip said. People are really trying in the Bay and should be commended, but in some wards, unexpectedly, the amount of water use has been disproportionate. According to Lovemore, 1 200 households part of the Bay s 1.152 million residents across its 60 wards consume 223Ml of the metro s 8 790Ml monthly water use. The third-highest household user (at 3 207Kl a month) lives in Ward 23 (Kwazakhele). In fourth and fifth place are houses in Ward 52 (Despatch) and Ward 43 (KwaNobuhle), which use 2 934Kl and 2 008Kl respectively. Among the schools, Limekhaya High School is in third place, with a daily average consumption per pupil of 159l, followed by Arthur Nyobo Primary School (153l) and Kama Primary School (145l). Among the wards in the metro, Ward 60 (Wells Estate) tops the list at 11 882Kl a month, followed by Ward 59 (Motherwell) at 8 103Kl, Ward 23 (Kwazakhele) at 7 900Kl, Ward 56 (also in Motherwell) at 7 800Kl and Ward 37 (Bethelsdorp) at 7 410Kl. Lovemore said the figures did not reflect possible leaks at the premises or wards. The school water usage statistics have prompted the metro to conduct a school awareness programme at the start of Water Week on March 16. This will see municipal officials visiting about 20 schools, predominantly in Uitenhage, to educate pupils on the importance of water usage, management and conservation. Lovemore said that over the next two weeks the municipality would also draft a water report to submit to the national Treasury in the hope of having the Bay declared a disaster area. This would enable it to receive the funding which accompanies that status. The last drought we had, the metro waited till dam levels were at an overall 35% before it was declared a disaster area, she said. As a result, we received a R1.6-billion relief fund that was meant for the completion of Nooitgedacht, which is yet to be completed. When the dams reach 45%, we will put in the application. So [we] are currently of the view that we would like to declare the Bay a disaster area at the first opportunity to plan better and develop workable solutions. Despite the dire water situation, Lovemore said no new water tariffs were on the cards yet. At the moment, we are not implementing the next tariff of water restrictions because, as the data shows, residents are truly playing their part and being water smart, she said. We can t, as a result, punish them when they are doing all they can. Currently the combined dam levels are at 47.92%, with the Kouga Dam at 33.22% (41 832ML), Impofu 70.92% (75 006ML), Loerie 43.85% (1 327ML), Groendal 61.94% (7 210ML) and Churchill 27.13% (9 561ML). #NelsonMandelaBay water abusers could be left high and dry if they continue to waste the scare resource. Captured here, is the Churchill Dam, where the water level is at a woeful 27.13%. Picture: Fredlin Adriaan #savewater #waterwasted #water #environment #nature #rain #norain #drought #dryland #PortElizabeth #EasternCape #southafrica #MyPE #CityOfPE #instapic #horse #drinkingwater #HotshotsWP #dams #sharethebay #blueskies #dry A post shared by The Herald Port Elizabeth (@heraldlive) on Mar 8, 2017 at 1:51am PST Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share