Hello darlings, it s me again your sassy socialite who rubs shoulders with the who s who of everything. My weekend kicked off with the SABC3 s fab Big Reveal event in Joburg with a new slogan called The Stage Is Yours . OK, if you re like me your brain will immediately go to rapper AKA s song and forever trending #theworldisyours. Be it that or something else, the event was attended by A-listers like Basetsana Kumalo, who must share the secret to her eternal youth since she looks a lot better than most 25-year-olds out there! Ayanda Thabethe, another beauty, stunned in a sheer, black-and-gold embroidered dress with her man, Dash, draped around her arm. The evening was topped off with a surprise performance by Mi Casa, who got everyone dancing, including actor Alfred Ntombela, who is mostly known as Leon Schuster s partner in crime. Last Friday I attended the opening of a new establishment called Posh Lounge in Parliament Street. Before you knock it because of its address, take note that owner Nkateko Chauke is trying to bring a more sophisticated vibe to Central where an upper-middle class clientele can also go and relax without feeling too overwhelmed by big crowds or rowdy tweens. Purely to check what is out there in terms of the dating pool, yours truly went to a singles evening hosted by the beautiful Jill Wakeford at the Tramways building in the valley last Saturday. Talk about pushing people out of their comfort zones guests had to match a puzzle piece with a member of the opposite sex and then strike up a conversation. There were more than a few gals who opted to group together and chat among themselves instead. The idea was great because just from scanning the room there were some who had an instant connection and managed to hit it off. Great for them, but for Skinners the room seemed filled with a lot more men than women, and the majority of blokes in attendance were middle-aged and white. Nothing against that, but a little more variety and diversity wouldn t hurt. Then again, no one is to blame for who decides to pitch up or not. Good on you Jill, keep the singles events coming because, even if not everyone found a potential mate, all did seem to have a great time. Overheard at the do was a gentleman who went around looking for portable women. Now I ve heard it all: women yet again being reduced to some male standard of what is acceptable to them. Moemish of the week goes to this gentle brother you know who you are! Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share