&nbsp; &nbsp; Eleanor Douglas-Meyers is a crafty mom from Uitenhage who writes about DIY, parenting, natural hair care, fashion, food and fun on her blog JustEllaBella. Today she tells you how to make DIY kinetic sand, or cloud dough &nbsp; Cloud dough is a fun and easy-to-make DIY project and I bet you never realised you can make it at home. It is soft and pliable and kids love it but I must however warn you that it makes quite a mess. I know you can simply buy kinetic sand in the shop which is very similar and certainly would be easier. However, I also know with my son and nephew that small R100 tub would be gone in seconds and I m not big on literally throwing money away. I also wanted a nice large quantity so that they could really get in there and play with it. I recently read that it is dangerous if kids or pets ingest the commercial mouldable sand and, while I don t believe everything I read, I wanted something that I was sure was non toxic my nephew Caleb has yet to meet an object he wouldn t like to taste. The texture of this mixture is not exactly like kinetic sand, it s much lighter and fluffier so it is more of a mouldable powder than anything else. It cost me about R40 for roughly 2kg of the stuff and I still have ingredients left over for a second batch. What you need 8 cups flour 1 cup canola oil Half a cup of non-toxic powder paint (the kind you mix with water to form poster paint) or powdered food colouring, which is even better A sealable tub (it helps to seal it in the container they will be playing in, as there is much less mess with back and forth) small beach toys measuring cups big spoon What to do bullet points Mix the flour and coloured powder of your choice (tip: Do not use normal food colouring as it is water based so will form clumps) Add oil Mix It s that simple: now place the mixture in your container and let them play! See more from Eleanor at justellabella.co.za. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share