Quinton de Kock batted through the pain of a damaged finger to bolster South Africa with a defiant 90 as the deciding test against New Zealand was evenly poised at the end of day three in Hamilton yesterday. In the rain-disrupted test, New Zealand were 67 without loss at stumps, with a rejuvenated Tom Latham on 42, in reply to South Africa s 314. The injured De Kock and previously out-of-form Latham were the individual stars in the deciding test, with South Africa 1-0 up and New Zealand needing a win to draw the series. De Kock, playing with damaged ligaments in his right index finger, went to the middle with South Africa 148 for five and held the innings together while the bottom half of the batting order added a further 166. South Africa batting coach Neil McKenzie described de Kock as a unique player who needed painkillers to get through the day. We re threatening to get bowled out for around 200 and he comes and gets a really quality 90, McKenzie said. There s a few tablets, anti-inflammatories and that sort of stuff, but Quinton doesn t mind, he just gets on with it. But I definitely see he was very uncomfortable. Latham, who managed 24 in total in three previous innings in the series, put his string of low scores behind him to ensure a positive start to New Zealand s reply with Jeetan Raval, who was 25 not out at stumps. New Zealand bowling coach Shane Jurgensen said Latham was buoyed by a standout performance in the field, highlighted by an instinctive catch at short leg to remove Faf du Plessis. I think the game s evenly poised. The two openers have set us up with a good start, Jurgensen said. Latham got a lot of confidence from his fielding. He took that into his batting today. He s got some confidence . Just as De Kock s 91 in the first innings in Wellington set South Africa up for an eight-wicket victory, he again tormented New Zealand with his troublefree approach. His 90 came off only 118 balls, highlighting why captain Faf du Plessis was determined to have him play despite the wicketkeeper-batsman s injury. He hit 11 fours and two huge sixes, one off New Zealand s best-performing bowler Matt Henry and one off Jeetan Patel, as he dominated the off-spinner who had claimed his wicket cheaply in the drawn first test. But 10 runs short of his century, he played across the line to Neil Wagner and was out lbw. South Africa resumed the day at 123 for four and after Henry removed Temba Bavuma for 29, Du Plessis progressed to 53 before a smart piece of fielding by Latham at short leg. On the third ball of Mitch Santner s opening over, Latham anticipated Du Plessis was going to sweep and moved to his right, where he flung out an arm to take the close-range catch. Latham took another classy catch, just above ground level to his right at second slip to remove Vernon Philander for 11 off Henry. AFP Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share