One of the men believed to be part of a gang responsible for robbing students and residents, mainly in the Summerstrand and Humewood areas, has been charged with 14 robberies. Thembelani Dyala, 22, appeared in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate s Court this week after being nabbed while walking through bush under the cover of darkness. Dyala s case was postponed to Tuesday as police try to link him to other crimes. To date, detectives believe he is linked to 14 cases, including house robberies mainly in Summerstrand and attacks at the Forest Hill Cemetery. Police have hailed the arrest as a breakthrough in their investigation of the gang. Dyala is believed to have been one of four suspects who were fleeing from police last week when Port Elizabeth K9 unit officer Sergeant Thembile Gaba, 28, was shot in the shoulder by a security guard in bush at the Driftsands Waste Water Treatment Works near Forest Hill. Gaba was in pursuit of four knife-wielding men through the bush after the gang allegedly robbed a man walking in Galpin Street at about 6pm. Fidelity Security guard Thando Ndongeni, 26, was arrested for shooting Gaba and has since been released on R500 bail with a warning to reappear in court on May 8. Gaba has since undergone a series of operations and remains in hospital. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the arrest happened at the weekend after several police officers were tasked to hide in the bushes and wait for the gang. The suspect was caught late on Saturday night while members were camped out in the bush performing an operation, she said. He was arrested in possession of a diving knife with gloves. It is suspected, based on the modus operandi, that this is one of the four men involved in a series of similar robberies. The other three suspects were still on the run but arrests were imminent, she said. Meanwhile, linkages are being probed to determine if the suspect could be tied to other robberies in the vicinity. Detectives worked around the clock to link him to the other robberies and he is now charged with 14 of them, Naidu said I can confirm that, of these 14 charges, some are believed to be robberies at the cemetery, house robberies and also people walking in the road being robbed. The bust comes after police issued a warning late last month that residents should be extra vigilant when visiting cemeteries as a series of robberies had been reported. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share