Professor Bongani Mayosi Picture: Supplied Discovery of new gene brings hope of life for young people, athletes The discovery of a new gene that is a major cause of death among young people and athletes has been described as the biggest breakthrough since South African cardiologist Dr Chris Barnard s first heart transplant 50 years ago. The breakthrough by two Eastern Cape-born doctors and a global team of scientists and researchers means cardiologists are now one step closer to preventing the untimely deaths of thousands of South Africans. This discovery is a first in the world on our soil and will permit the diagnosis and possible targeted treatment of heart muscle disease in the future, Eastern Cape-born Professor Bongani Mayosi said. This is only the beginning &#8230; the recognition [of the discovery] means we are still at base camp but with a licence to climb Everest, he said, comparing the work which still lay ahead to climbing a mountain. Mayosi and his team of global experts, including Mthatha-born cardiologist Dr Ntobeko Ntusi, found that the new gene, called CDH2, if mutated, caused Arrhythmogenic right ventricle cardiomyopathy (ARVC), a genetic disorder that predisposes young people to cardiac arrest. It comes after Mayosi, the dean of medicine at the University of Cape Town (UCT), had a 15-year-old East London patient whose family has a history of sudden death referred to him by a colleague at Mount Frere Hospital in 2003. It took him 20 years and many failed attempts before making the potentially life-changing discovery that the mutation of the CDH2 gene could cause sudden death. The announcement yesterday coincided with the findings being published in the medical journal Circulation: Cardiovascular Genetics. Mayosi said after finishing his training to become a doctor he had decided to do research on genetic heart disease because globally heart disease is the leading cause of death and half the population of South Africa is affected by [it] . This is probably the biggest breakthrough in South African cardiology since Dr Chris Barnard s first heart transplant, he said. Working through a global collaborative group which included experts from Italy and Canada, researchers were able to identify the CDH2 gene. SA Medical Research Council (SAMRC) president Professor Glenda Gray said the collaborative research was what the council sought to fund because it directly translated into finding ways to save lives in South Africa. When pioneering medical researchers make such discoveries it enables us to innovate to find easy ways to detect the gene or diagnose ARVC and find ways to prevent sudden death in young South Africans, she said. Cases of sudden cardiac death claim the lives of more than five young South Africans a day, according to the SAMRC. In Italy, about 50 000 people of all ages die suddenly every year. In young people, like among South Africans, an inherited form of disease of the heart muscle [cardiomyopathy] appears to have a prominent role in the cause of sudden death that is related to cardiac disease, the SAMRC said. According to Mayosi, ARVC can lead to sudden death in youngsters and athletes who have the mutated CDH2 gene. It does happen. Particularly to people who participate in endurance sports, such as Ironman, he said. New tests would now be able to identify if someone had the condition. Often the clinical signs of the disease only become clear years later. If a person with ARVC is a carrier of the mutated CDH2 gene it means that person is at a higher risk of cardiac disease. Mayosi said the discovery was a catalyst for further research to now discover a treatment for the condition, which he likened to treatment for cholesterol. This is the start of work which leads to real progress [and] discovery of new knowledge, he said. When Mayosi started his research into genetic heart conditions at Oxford University in England in the 1990s, there was insufficient technology available to identify genes to the degree he needed. After completing his studies abroad, Mayosi returned to Cape Town and continued his research at UCT and Groote Schuur Hospital. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share