OFF TO BARCELONA: Strelitzia High School soccer players, from left, Mzamo Mtshali, 17, Marco Pedro, 14, and Oyintanda Bob, 15, are among 30 players from South Africa who will be jetting off to Spain on a soccer tour next month. Picture: Vuyokazi Nkanjeni Three promising Strelitzia High School soccer players will embark on an opportunity of a lifetime when they travel to Spain next month. Mzamo Mtshali, 17, Marco Pedro, 14, and Oyintanda Bob, 15, will be part of a group of 30 soccer players from all over South Africa headed for Barcelona to take part in an U19 soccer tournament from April 10 to 18. The three were handpicked during a Nedbank Cup U19 soccer tournament at Grey College last year. Central midfielders Oyintanda and Marco, both in Grade 9, were thrilled at the opportunity. I am very excited about the trip but I need to focus, Oyintanda said. I need to go there prepared, but most importantly I need to make my school and South Africa proud. I would like to learn their fast-paced playing style of football, dribbling, passing and concentration on the game. The Chippa United U17 player said his plan was to continue with soccer until he turned pro, but without losing focus on his studies. Marco said he almost shed a tear when he heard his name called. Although he also does athletics and plays cricket at school, the Chippa United supporter said his first love was soccer. I started playing soccer when I was six, and my mother has always supported me. If I do make it to professional soccer, I would like to play for the Chilli Boys. Mzamo, who is in matric, said he would take his books with to Spain to try to catch up with his classmates for the week he will be away. Grade 12 is demanding and we get homework every day, but I am able to balance my school work and soccer. I want to gain as much experience as I can in Spain and bring it back to our school so that we can play beautiful soccer like teams in Spain. The Uitenhage school s soccer team manager Nathaniel Peterson said this was a huge milestone in terms of soccer. In the last couple of years, soccer has been developing and progressing well in the school, Peterson said. We have been putting the boys into numerous tournaments to get them exposure. In 2015 we were invited by Grey College to their yearly U19 tournament, the Nedbank Cup, along with some of the top 20 former Model C schools. We were contacted by Travel and Sport last year to say they were going to select a team to represent South Africa in Spain in April this year. Last year we did well in the competition, but not as well as we did the previous year we came third in our first year of participation. Despite their sixth-place finish, Peterson said their success of last year was that three of their pupils were selected for the tour of Spain. However, he said their biggest challenge right now was funding. We need to raise money for the boys to be able to make the trip. Each boy needs R25 000 towards the tour. The mothers and I have organised a gala dinner to raise funds. The gala dinner will take place at the Uitenhage Town Hall tonight. The event starts at 7am and the dress code is smart casual. For more information, contact Peterson at 078-351-0934. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share