ANC Nelson Mandela Bay chairman Andile Lungisa was back at his old college yesterday, trying to drum up support for the South African Students Congress ahead of the SRC elections later this month. Speaking to about 300 students at Port Elizabeth College s Dower campus, Lungisa called upon Sasco leaders to defend the revolution. The DA Student Organisation (Daso) is the SRC in charge of the Dower campus. The students were led in prayer by two clergymen who said they did not want to see the country going backwards. Lungisa said: We are seeing the return of power to white minority. They have already taken the council at City Hall, led by [Athol] Trollip. He said students must burn incense to drive away the evil spirit that came with Daso. Daso is the wing of the DA, the protectors of white privilege. Lungisa urged Sasco to educate young people that the freedom they had was not freely given, but won through a revolutionary struggle. Even the student financial aid that is given through NSFAS [National Student Financial Aid Scheme] was achieved through Sasco intervention. At first it was called Tefsa, when I was still a student, Lungisa said. He told the students he had attended the same college and was a member of the SRC. All revolutions were led by young people who first acquired education, from Fidel Castro in 1959, he said. Queen Nzinga, who liberated Angola from the rule of Portuguese, came from a student movement, same as Samora Machel who liberated Mozambique, also from the Portuguese. Here at home, Nelson Mandela was a radical student before he was recruited to the ANC Youth League. Lungisa told students to prioritise education ahead of pleasures. You must not prioritise boyfriends and girlfriends, he said. You are here to study, not to fall pregnant. Study and pass, to get qualifications to give other young people opportunities to also get educated. He urged the students to vote for Sasco and take the campus back from Daso. The SRC elections are set down for March 24. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share