Bay real estate personality Kobie Potgieter Well-known Port Elizabeth estate agent Kobie Potgieter makes her second appearance in the popular KykNET home renovation series Vat Jou Goed en Trek today. The owner of Re/Max Independent Properties franchises in Lorraine and Walmer is one of the central figures in the show in which houses up for sale are renovated to reach the best possible price. Spread around the country, the series consists of 13 episodes, with programmes screened on Fridays at 5.30pm. Potgieter s episode, which sees her assisting in the renovations of a house in Beau Monte Estate in Walmer Heights, will be aired for the first time on DStv today. There will be repeats tomorrow (1pm), Sunday (11am), Monday (11.30am), Tuesday (1am) and Wednesday (1.30am). Potgieter, a former teacher who has been selling property for 16 years, said she was approached by the show s presenter and producer, Henck Conrey, for the first series. Henck wanted me to do all the episodes, but, because of the magnitude of the show, I felt it was not feasible, Potgieter said. I said I felt it would be better if we got Re/Max national on board and when we contacted our colleagues around the country they were very excited to be part of it. She said families looking to sell their houses could submit a video clip of why they felt they should appear on the programme. Henck and his team then view the videos and decide on the qualifying family for each region. The qualifying family wins R50 000 which must be spent on renovations, with the ultimate aim of improving the value of the sale. Potgieter said once a house was identified, she would assess it and make preliminary suggestions. Then the television crew and building team come down from Johannesburg and we go through the house together. She said this was where the show could get a little edgy as it was all done live, with nothing being rehearsed. We all go through the house and I make the suggestions, in consultation with the builder and the owners, she said. It can get quite fiery because everyone has their own opinion. She said most of the work was often required in the living areas and kitchen, covering anything from breaking down walls to redoing flooring, painting and improving cupboard space. The family do not see the renovations being done and the television crew film the house before it all starts, while the work is under way and then the finished product. Potgieter, a regular award-winner in her industry, said renovating homes was a life-long passion. Conrey said he knew Potgieter would be an asset to the series. Her experience and knowledge, and her ability to enhance the potential in a property, is the reason we simply had to invite Kobie onto the show. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share