Micky, left, Mrs Johnstone and Edward are played by Reinhardt Malherbe, Kasvia von Memerty and Zuki Kaliko Picture: Chris Gertsch Blood Brothers, a colourful musical about twin brothers who grow up on opposite sides of the social tracks without realising they are actually related, will open at the Pemads Little Theatre at the Athenaeum in Belmont Terrace next week. The internationally acclaimed musical is being staged by Theodor Herzl High School pupils under the guidance of respected local theatre director Robin Williams, who is also the school s drama teacher. Williams said she was thrilled to be directing one of my total bucket-list shows: It is going to be a knockout! The 10-day run starts on Wednesday March 15 and ends on Sunday March 26, with all shows at 7pm except for the last one on Sunday March 26, which will start at 3pm. Blood Brothers was written by the acclaimed British dramatist Willy Russell, who was also behind such gems as Shirley Valentine and Educating Rita. Russell also handled the music and lyrics. The story is a contemporary nature versus nurture plot, revolving around Mickey and Eddie, who were separated at birth. The twins&#8217; vastly different backgrounds take them to opposite ends of the social spectrum, one becoming a councillor and the other unemployed and in prison. Originally developed as a school play, Blood Brothers went on to become one of the longest-running musical productions in the history of London s West End. It also had a very successful stint on Broadway and has toured internationally, developing a cult following. The play is described as powerful, thought-provoking and funny as well as a rich, detailed and desperately moving piece of work . Above all it is very much a human story about love, friendship and the things that can go wrong when the truth is not told. Local stage stalwart Chireen Ferreira is handling the choreography and vocal direction for the Port Elizabeth production, with musical direction by Erle Felkers. The gala performance on Wednesday is in aid of Ithemba lam baby home and will include an opening night party after the show, sponsored by Greyvensteins and Bocadillos, with tickets at R150 . Tickets for all other evening shows are R100 and for the matinee show R80. Pensioners pay R80 for all shows and the price for block bookings of 20 people or more is also R80. For bookings and inquiries contact (041) 581-4244 during school hours. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share