Former Miss South Africa Tatum Keshwar posing in David Tlale creations with two male models Top South African fashion designer David Tlale unveiled his new collaboration, Jockey by David Tlale, at Mercedes- Benz Fashion Week this month. The theme of this collection is called What s Beneath. Inspiration was taken from the natural contours and movement of the body, and is about the hidden desires of the soul. It gloriously unmasks what we try to hide from society, all those elements that make us beautifully human. It speaks of fantasy, luxury, sensuality and indulgence, leaving the consumer feeling gorgeous, Tlale said. Former Miss South Africa 2008 Tatum Keshwar is on board as the Brand Ignitor of the Jockey by David Tlale Autumn/Winter 2017 collaborative range. Having Tatum associated with our exquisite range really entrenches the fact that this line is sensual and sexy. It is classy and sophisticated, Jockey brand manager Jenna Carter said. The Jockey South Africa license was awarded to Ninian &amp; Lester (Pty) Ltd, from the USA, in 1951. The first Jockey garments were launched in 1953. Since then, they have firmly entrenched themselves as one of the largest manufacturers of underwear in South Africa. Jockey retails underwear and sleepwear garments for men, women and children. It has been a fantastic experience for our design team to work with a South African fashion icon. Our knowledge of underwear, combined with David s fashion expertise, enabled our design team to take David s vision and conceptualise a range that is very different to anything Jockey has ever done before. What s Beneath incorporates new fabrics, designs, colours, and silhouettes that align the brand with current market trends, making it appealing to a more trendy, edgier market, Carter said. The Jockey by David Tlale What s Beneath range of garments will be available in Jockey stores nationally and select retail stores for Autumn/Winter this year . Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share