Justice Minister Michael File Picture: Trevor Samson / Business Day Justice Minister Michael Masutha has come under fire from MPs for sending officials to account before parliament on the country s failed International Criminal Court (ICC) withdrawal instead of coming personally to answer political questions . The government withdrew its decision to withdraw from the Rome Statute of the ICC following a high court decision declaring it invalid and unconstitutional. Some of the country s most esteemed legal minds have advised the government on the role it should play at the ICC. The group which includes retired Constitutional Court justices Zak Yacoob and Kate O Reagan, and Justice Navi Pillay who is also a former judge of the ICC made a submission to parliament s portfolio committee on justice and correctional services. Briefing an oversight committee on international relations yesterday acting chief state law adviser Ayesha Johaar said the cabinet had noted the ruling by the Pretoria High Court. Cabinet abides by the ruling and has established a technical task team to develop a compliance roadmap Johaar said. COPE leader Mosiuoa Lekota said it would be unfair to interrogate Johaar and demanded that Masutha be present. First of all we ourselves must be very clear whose role is what. I think we are making a serious mistake [by] asking members of bureaucracy to answer political questions, he said. Why do we think that someone who is employed to give a legal opinion . . . must take responsibility for the political decisions of those who occupy political positions? ANC MPs nodded in agreement. They are experts to assist the politicians how to do things not to answer what will happen if we withdraw from the ICC Lekota said. That question must be answered by the ministers here. I m frankly very embarrassed. We can t confront sardines when the sharks are away. We need the sharks here because these are innocent people these are experts. I would appeal that you note our questions and ask the ministers to come here and answer for themselves so the country can hear as we hold them to account Lekota said. Committee chairman Siphosezwe Masango said Masutha was sick and Communications Minister Faith Muthambi was acting in his position. But Muthambi also excused herself from the meeting. Masango said Masutha and International Relations and Cooperation Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane would be asked to brief the committee at a later stage. DA MP Darren Bergman said at least one minister should have been present. Ultimately it s the ministry that makes the decision the executive. I m getting very worried about [the] advice given to ministers or how decisions are taken, he said. Decisions are taken from an executive level. Now South Africa has been summoned to The Hague on April 7 to explain why Omar al- Bashir was allowed to leave South Africa. Another DA MP, Stevens Mokgalapa, said the court decision basically reaffirmed parliament s authority. It has put us back in the fore as the centre of legislation and accountability in this country. It must be welcomed, he said. It gives us those powers as a committee of parliament; in such treaties we get to engage them thoroughly and not see them as a rubber stamp. The judgment says parliament must be taken seriously. Masutha s spokesman, Mthunzi Mhaga, confirmed that the ICC s pre-trial chamber (PTC) had directed South Africa to appear before it on April 7 to make oral submissions on its failure to arrest Sudanese President al-Bashir. It is important to note that South Africa will not be appearing as an accused before the PTC, but to assist the chamber to understand the country s position in what is procedural in an inquisitorial process, Mhaga said. South Africa will fully participate in this process. A human rights body has asked the ICC to rule on whether South Africa had contravened its obligations to the global institution by not arresting al-Bashir. The SA Litigation Centre (SALC) said the PTC had granted the centre s application to make submissions on South Africa s failure to arrest al-Bashir. Kajaal Ramjathan-Keogh director of the SALC made this announcement at a media briefing convened by the International Commission of Jurists who announced that it had made submissions to South Africa s parliament calling on the country to stay in the ICC. &#8211; TMG Digital Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share