Eastern Cape athlete Stephen Penney is gearing up for his 25th Two Oceans Marathon in Cape Town next month, while wife Terri-Lynn will be making her 13th appearance. Picture: Supplied Grahamstown s Penney set for quarter century of runs Eastern Cape athlete Stephen Penney will be making his 25th appearance at this year s Two Oceans Marathon in Cape Town on April 15. Penney was only 18 when he took on the prestigious marathon in 1993 and he has never missed a race since. He holds the record of being the youngest to reach 20 consecutive ultra-marathons. It is a record that will stay put in the history books of the Two Oceans because the minimum age to participate in the race is now 20. After having successfully run the Cape ultra race for 24 years in a row, the 41-year-old says he still gets emotional at the start line of the race every year. Asked how he felt about running his 25th Two Oceans, Penney just laughed, saying, It s just another medal. Every year when I get to the start line it s pretty emotional, because just to get to the starting line knowing that you are injury free and free of flu is an achievement. But to be able to finish 25 in a row, in 25 years with no injuries and no flu I find that pretty incredible myself. It s quite an achievement every single time I run Oceans. Especially with our bodies getting older and the muscles getting weaker, it s so much easier to pick up injuries. I am so fortunate to be injury free. Penney, who is sports editor and photographer at the Grocotts Mail newspaper in Grahamstown, says he has no plans of ever retiring from the race. He says he ll stop running only when he can no longer walk. However, the former Graeme College pupil admits that the past three years have been tough. I still run under six hours, so I think I still have quite a few runs in me. But I would love to be able to run Two Oceans until I can t run anymore. I want to finish in less than six hours but I want it to be a comfortable six hours. If I could finish in five-and-ahalf hours, that will be pretty good. So how are preparations going for this year s event? I am picking up my training at the moment, he said. I got off to a bad start in January. I picked up an injury at the end of December which kept me out for the whole of January. I started training in February, so now eventually I am starting to feel like a runner again after a month-and-a-half of training. He says the Two Oceans is his favourite event on the calendar. People ask me straight after the race what I am training for, so I say for Two Oceans next year, he smiles. That is always my goal. I am training for the next Two Oceans. Obviously I will do little races and marathons to qualify in between. Most of my training is in the morning. That s why at the moment I don t run for records or personal best, I just run to finish. I do a long run on a Wednesday and then another long run every Saturday. Penney s love of the race has rubbed off on his wife, Terri-Lynn, who is a top Eastern Province runner. She will be running her 13th next month. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share