ALL SMILES: Heatherbank Primary School Grade 4 pupils Oyama Nelson, left, and Anoyolo Mcpehle with student relations manager Jaci Howell Picture: Supplied Varsity College gives tables and chairs to Heatherbank Heatherbank Primary School, a nonprofit organisation for underprivileged children in Walmer Township, recently received much-needed furniture, thanks to Varsity College. The school, which was started in 1974 and receives no funding from the government, managed to extend its premises when it built two new classrooms following a number of fundraising initiatives. Heatherbank principal Ellen Lovemore said the school provided education, food and transport to 140 children between the ages of three and 11 on a daily basis. Varsity College has helped us immensely, Lovemore said. We needed to furnish our two newly built classrooms added to accommodate the school s growing numbers and they donated chairs and tables. Both classrooms, including our computer room, have been equipped with furniture. We are delighted with our modern desks as they complement our new classrooms. Lovemore said they would welcome any assistance as they still needed to build two more classrooms and another ablution block. Varsity College principal Paul Manson said the donation was part of the varsity s ongoing community engagement programme. He said two years ago they donated a mobile library to the school and would constantly help the school in critical areas that needed attention. We recently refurnished and upgraded our IT labs on campus to accommodate our growing student numbers, he said. We have a close association with Heatherbank Primary School and were aware that the school was expanding, so what better place to give our tables and chairs to than this great school? Lovemore said the school s numbers were constantly increasing and stationery was a necessity. With winter approaching, students would be in desperate need of uniforms, she said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share