Hello darlings. It s that time of the week where you get to read who did what with whom and what they wore while doing it. My weekend kicked off in Central at Chillaz on Chapel at the Roof Garden Bar. The event is always chilled and you can expect good music and good company. Considering it was pay day last Friday there was a good turnout; Chillaz on Chapel seems to be a fave new hangout for Bay youth. The place was packed and your Skinnerbek felt a little left out as one of the few who weren t showing off what their mama gave them. I don t know if the organisers are too blind to see that the youth love their drinks! Perhaps they are straight out stingy with the alcohol because the bar was empty by midnight. A little birdie told me the same thing happened last time. On Saturday, I went to the Boardwalk for the Eastern Cape Sports and Recreation Achievers Awards, where the Who s Who in sports in the province was present, including sports Minister Fikile Mbalula. Skinnerbek spotted our mayor Athol Trollip huffing and puffing his way from the bottom of Upper Valley Road up the hill on The Herald Continental Cycle Tour on Sunday morning. Big ups to you Mr T, we never knew you were a cyclist and what s more, that main race was 106km. We often diss politicians for being office-bound fat cats so we are very impressed, especially as we hear you regularly cycle 25 to 30km before work every day. Later in the day, to cool off from the blazing heat, I headed out to one of Uitenhage s former glory spots, the Spring Resort, for the Sunday Soul Sessions Pool Ham, where DJ Superman was his usual energetic self. Socialite Theo Klaas was also there. I think I need his petrol card and energy because this guy gets around and is always in style. The music was good as always, but there weren t too many people in the water and the ladies wore some of the shortest skirts I ve seen in a while, clearly making the most of the dying throes of summer. Skinner felt a bit conscious of her dimply thighs but that s ok, winter is coming and I ve got my outfits already lined up. Just saying, we slay in certain seasons. My weekend ended off on a poetic note at Dockside Brewery at the harbour for the first Comedy and Soul Nights presented by Radio Yabantu. Nqaba Bhanga supported the new venture but quickly disappeared to the private deck lounge. Perhaps he didn t want people counting how many drinks he was planning on having. Comedy is a tricky business because the MC was funnier than the comedians, but people still enjoyed themselves. Poet Dongadala Bemdiliza was a breath of fresh air and had the audience in a trance with his catchy lines. I m a big fan. Other news from the week, at least according to your gossip gal s sources, is that MEC of Social Development, Nancy Sihlwayi showed up with three bodyguards in tow at the Great Moscow Circus opening at the Boardwalk last week. One wonders why she needed all that protection: perhaps she thought a juggler could drop something on her head! Ciao! Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share