TIME TO MOVE ON: Cheeky Watson bids farewell to Eastern Province Rugby at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium yesterday Picture: GEORGE BYRON Taking his final bow yesterday, outgoing EP Rugby Union president Cheeky Watson has called for unity and an end to negativity ahead of EPRU s upcoming election to find a new leader. Watson s call came after he resigned yesterday from the cash strapped union, which is under administration at present. His decision to quit followed the announcement by SA Rugby official Monde Tabata at an EPRU meeting on Saturday that elections would be held early next month. Also present at the meeting were SA Rugby Union (Saru) president Mark Alexander and other top ranking officials. The administration of EPRU is set to be returned to local hands following a series of groundbreaking decisions at the meeting. I always said that if there was stability with SA Rugby s intervention and with possible funders in the wings, I would immediately resign, Watson said. I think that stability is there now and the time has come to hand over the reins to new leadership. I would not consider standing again. This is a chapter that has passed and is history. The important thing with elections coming up is that there is unity and compromise among candidates. It is vitally important that there is unity and the negativity around EP Rugby needs to stop. People must be unified behind the new president to ensure that there is top-flight rugby here for years to come. Whoever decides to throw their hat into the ring, it is important that they negotiate with each other so they can reach compromises for certain positions so that they can have the backing of the entire province. Watson said the new president would face extremely tough challenges. It will be tough and there are always challenges in this region. The main challenge is financial and the second is to be united. Everyone must stand behind the new president whoever he is. East Cape Rugby Transformation Coalition (RTC) spokesman Qondakele Sompondo, in reaction to Watson s resignation, said: That is wonderful news. It really indicates that there is still a rugby man in Cheeky Watson. We welcome his resignation and think it is the right thing to do. We hope his action will inspire a lot of people the people in the same structure with him to do the right thing. There is a good man in Cheeky because he understands that institutions are bigger than any human being. When things don t work out, it is right to do a thorough introspection and step aside and allow those who still have energy to take over from where he ended. RTC national chairman Bantwini Matika declined to comment. Former Springbok Garth Wright said Watson had given it his best shot. I think it [resigning] was the right thing to do, Wright said. There were certainly mistakes made, but there are a lot of people who make mistakes. The only guy being fingered was Cheeky. To give the Kings, originally, only one season in Super Rugby was a mistake and that was the greatest set-up for failure ever seen. My point is that although mistakes were made, I strongly believe that Cheeky gave it his best shot. I wish him well in whatever his new endeavours will be. Wright has been touted as a possible candidate to succeed Watson, but he ruled himself out. I am happy to help and assist from the outside but I am not prepared to be an elected official, he said. Southern Kings chief operating officer Charl Crous said Watson had shown great vision for rugby in the region. It was thanks to Cheeky s vision that Super Rugby and other international events came to this region and I wish him all the best for the future. Asked if he felt he should have resigned earlier, Watson said: That debate can be there and maybe I should have resigned earlier, but I had to feel comfortable. Maybe it is old school, but I have been brought up believing that a captain does not leave a sinking ship. I had to be sure in my mind that things are stable and moving in the right direction. Only then did I feel comfortable to resign. Watson said it had been lonely at the helm of the union. I have never thought of leaving a legacy, he said. It was a dogfight from the day I started and there were certain goals that I wanted to achieve. I think those goals were achieved and now it is time to move on. Getting Super Rugby here in 2013, test matches, the World Sevens Series and, for the first time in history, we had the EP U19, U21 and senior sides in the A Division of the Currie Cup. We also built up a good academy. We did well in Super Rugby 2013 and broke records. We also attracted a record 46 000 crowd to the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium for a Currie Cup promotion match against the Pumas. That crowd attendance figure between two B Section teams will never be achieved again. Watson said he felt things had started to go wrong after the 2013 Super Rugby season. I think you are a lot wiser in hindsight and the biggest mistake I made was to fight for Super Rugby in 2013 and to accept one year in the competition, he said. We never realised the consequences and the amount of money that needed to be ploughed into Super Rugby. Watson said after the Lions took over the Kings place in Super Rugby, players and the director of rugby, Alan Solomons, left. Nobody wanted to play in B Division Currie Cup rugby without Super Rugby, he said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share