 Violet Lupuwana, 31, with baby Dimakatso, who is now two months old. Lupuwana has started helping other mothers of premature babies during their stay at Dora Nginza Hospital. Picture: Eugene Coetzee. Struggling with a lack of sleep, managing her own company and helping others with the care of their premature babies is all in a day s work for a Walmer mother who has grown a ministry of helpers at Dora Nginza Hospital in Port Elizabeth. Violet Lupuwana, 31, who gave birth to a premature baby less than three months ago, has opened her heart to other mothers who find themselves without everyday essentials, including toiletries, while at the hospital. Lupuwana gave birth to Dimakatso on January 13, at 26 weeks. The baby weighed only 810 grams at birth and has spent more than two months in an incubator. Since the birth, Lupuwana has been staying at the hospital as a resident to care for Dimakatso in the hospital s prem unit along with a number of other mothers, mostly from poor backgrounds. It is indeed very tiring. For instance, I come from the [midnight] feed, I will sleep at about 2am and I need to be up again at 3am. We feed every three hours so this means we don t get enough sleep, she said, referring also to the other mothers in the unit. Lupuwana, who owns and runs Chumile Consulting in Walmer, is a qualified engineer and has two other children, a five-year-old daughter and one-yearold son, who stay at home in Walmer with a nanny while her husband works in East London. While looking after her own baby, Lupuwana has noticed the dire straits many mothers in the prem unit find themselves in. Since realising the need for everyday essentials that many of them do not have, she has, through a network of friends, collected food, clothing and toiletries for those in need. I saw an opportunity to extend a helping hand to the less fortunate mamas who don t have toiletries, clothes and food. So I started growing a ministry of helpers, she said. Initially, Lupuwana sent out a note to a couple of friends to ask for donations for mothers in need and the response has been good . She said she wanted to create awareness of the plight of many mothers of premature babies who do not have the means to look after themselves while staying at Dora Nginza. I feel a need to help these women. It is a blessing to me to know that I can help, she said, adding that she felt overwhelmed by the care and support received from Dora Nginza staff. The hospital s social worker, Pamela Rubushe, who has been working with Lupuwana in her initiative, said she was happy to have the assistance. It is a unique situation because [Lupuwana] is a patient here. She is not only here for her own child but is helping others, Rubushe said. It is very touching. Rubushe said any more goods people wished to donate, including items for mothers, would be welcomed. It is nice when the mothers receive things as well, she said. Lupuwana said she hoped Dimakatso would be sent home soon, after she gained another 100 grams. The baby s goal weight for discharge is 1.5kg. After Lupuwana leaves the hospital, she plans on starting a non-profit organisation through her company to continue helping those in need. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share