Infant and child nutritionist Claire McHugh takes a look at how parents can navigate the minefield of toddler nutrition When your little one is about six months old, he/she is ready to start trying food and liquids other than breast milk or formula. As a parent, you want to know that your child is eating the right foods to ensure his/her development is on track but you can sometimes feel overwhelmed by the amount of conflicting information on nutrition for your little one, and the large variety of baby food products available. The good news is that, contrary to what baby food marketers will try to tell you, babies and children do not need special foods to keep healthy. In fact, as long as you follow a few simple nutritional guidelines, and blend or cut up their food, your tot can eat a similar diet to yours, which can make your life much easier. Plan ahead Being well prepared can take a lot of the worry out of mealtimes. It is therefore a good idea to plan your family s meals for the week or month ahead and then make a shopping list. Buy more of the staple foods that provide the most nutrients, such as breads, cereals, fruit, vegetables, rice, and dairy. These tend to last longer through the week and form the basis of your meals. Prepare meals and snacks from all five food groups Although not every meal or snack that you prepare for your toddler must include all five food groups, ensure that her daily diet has a good mix of these five. The main food groups are: Carbohydrates give your child a variety of starchy food as they are the body&#8217;s primary energy source. Try to get in five (toddler-size) servings a day. Some examples include cereal, bread, potatoes, rice, crackers, couscous and mealie meal. Vegetables and fruit Vegetables and fruit are rich in vitamins and minerals incorporate a wide variety and aim for five servings a day. To avoid unnecessary food wastage, you can buy frozen, canned or fresh to get the same nutrients. Protein meat, fish, chicken, eggs and nuts (ensure they are chopped) are all good sources of the one to two servings of protein youngsters should have a day. Most children prefer softer cuts of meat such as chicken, minced meat, sausages, pate or slowly baked meat. For a bit of variety, you can also opt for beans and lentils. Dairy your little one should have two to three servings of full-fat milk, cheese and yoghurt a day, to help them build strong bones and teeth. You can also supplement these servings with breast milk. Fat young children need more fat than we do for their development, but be sure not to replace other food groups with fat. Healthy fats include avocados and olive oil. Remember, though, that much of your toddler s fat requirements come from full-fat protein and dairy products, so it is not really necessary to buy special foods. Limit the fried food, cake and biscuits. Keeping your baby hydrated The best drink for your toddler is plain and simple water. Six to eight drinks a day (about 120ml per serving) should be enough, unless your little one is very active and the weather is really hot. Avoid sugary and fizzy drinks and tea and coffee. If you do want to occasionally give your little one fruit juice, dilute it with lots of water. Move away from bottles and use beakers and cups instead. Don t overfeed Many parents get anxious that their children are not getting enough nutrients, and so tend to overfeed them. This can make for an overweight and unhealthy little one. Your child only needs small quantities of different foods a day, which can be divided into three meals and two snacks. Aim for one tablespoon per age of your child for each dish (about two or three dishes per main meal). For example, a two-year-old child should receive two tablespoons each of carrots, rice, and mince. It s important that you never force feed your child. Instead of focusing on a clean plate, encourage eating until they re full. Don t make a big fuss when the child refuses a particular food. Wait a little bit, and try a few days later with a positive attitude. Remember that it can take a toddler up to 20 times of trying a certain food to decide whether or not he/she actually likes it. Make mealtimes fun Bear in mind that it s not just what babies eat that s important for their development how they are exposed to food also helps shape their brains. You should encourage them to use all their five senses to explore the foods they are eating, such as grabbing the food with their hands, or watching you feed them with an aeroplane spoonful of sustenance. Think of mealtime as playtime, so you focus less on the mess and more on the fun your toddler is having while she learns. For your child to grow, develop and explore, he or she needs a balanced diet with lots of different foods that do not need to be baby-specific foods. Don t worry if you don t always manage to feed your child a nourishing diet every day. As long as your toddler eats well most of the time, he or she will be getting plenty of nutrients. Claire McHugh is a Pampers Institute expert Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share