Designs by Austin Lee Pictures: Gillian McAinsh Designs by Austin Lee Pictures: Gillian McAinsh Designs by Mooi Mooi Pictures: Gillian McAinsh Designs by Phathiswa Madiki Pictures: Gillian McAinsh Designs by Phathiswa Madiki Pictures: Gillian McAinsh Designs by Thembani Selani Pictures: Gillian McAinsh Designs by Thembani Selani Pictures: Gillian McAinsh Designs by Kira Van Heerden Pictures: Gillian McAinsh The young fashionistas who started Nelson Mandela Bay Fashion Week presented their first Fashion Sunday at the weekend with the work of five Port Elizabeth designers. Lauren Gravett s Mooi Mooi range, three outfits by Kira van Heerden and more extensive collections from designers Austin Lee, Phathiswa Madiki and Thembani Selani were warmly received by the audience at Amarula Bay Fashion Sunday, held at the Roof Garden Bar in Chapel Street. Boss Lady Xolela Madlanga was the MC for the afternoon, which attracted an inaugural audience of about 100. The designers also outdid themselves and blew the audience away but we still haven t decided on who we are going to select for the NMBFW, said one of the organisers, Siphosethu Martins. The show went according to our plan, we didn t experience any glitches in terms of models, designers and production. He said the NMBFW team were quite happy with the turnout and would now focus on building the audience and content for future Fashion Sundays, including giving a full designer brief for what to expect at this year s Fashion Week. Self-employed Walmer designer Madiki said the afternoon had been worthwhile as the reaction had been good, and she had sold several pieces. This was my first time to enter something like this but it was very nice. I saw on Facebook about the event and although I normally make garments for churches, farewells and traditional wear, this was a good way for people to recognise my work, Madiki said. Martins said designers who did not showcase in Bay Fashion Sundays would be able to apply for a slot on NMBFW. Since its debut last year, the NMBFW team has grown to eight and now includes a model trainer and a marketing team. Its next show is on Sunday afternoon, April 30 at the Roof Garden Bar. Inquiries:apply@nmbfw.co.za Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share