Though pleased with a seventh place finish in the MultiChoice Diski Challenge this season compared with their bottom closure last season Chippa United development coach Glen Minnie says he is going for the big title next season. Minnie, who is from Libode in the former Transkei, took over the helm at the Port Elizabeth-based side late in 2015, after coach Eddie Dyaloyi left for Mthatha Bucks. With only six matches left before the end of the 2014/15 MDC season, he was unable to lift the team up from the bottom of the log. They ended with a draw and five defeats. However, this season, with the right systems in place and the support of the management, the first-team coach, senior players and suppor ters, Minnie has made Chippa a team to be reckoned with in the MDC league. He has also played a vital role in the promotion of local players like Sherwin Bailey, Bulumko Ceki and Yurigg Conwood from development to first team. Minnie said he was used to winning titles and wanted to do the same at Chippa. Where I come from I am used to winning league titles and a league title is not something easy to win because you have to play everybody twice, Minnie said. I have not reached my full potential with this team. I know that we can do much more.With the core that I am going to keep and add to, I can compete for honours this coming season. The coach was in Cape Town when he was called in to take charge of the Chilli Boys development side. As someone who likes to work systemically and orderly, Minnie was not impressed with the running of things at the development level. I got here in the last six games during that time, he said. I realised that this team was just going to fulfil fixtures. It did not have a plan going forward and the technical team guys were really struggling because they were not working in a system. So, I came and I put systems in place where we are able to do things to bring us as technical staff onto one page. Where we do things together, alike, and we do things to benefit the brand. Once I had put those systems in place I realised that the players were just there to fulfil fixtures. There were no plans for players to go to senior teams. It was a bit late for me to bring in new players at the time because you are allowed only 35 players for the season and we had exceeded our quota. Minnie, a former striker himself, said under very difficult circumstances he had had to work with what he had. We persevered but we could not accomplish much as we ended up finishing last on the log. From the six games we only got a draw and five losses. It wasn t something good and to me it was not a true reflection of the person I am. I like to work in an organised environment, with organised people and people that want to be here. During the break, Minnie started the search to get young and fresh legs into the team that would help him accomplish his goals for Chippa. He said the plan was to get players that were younger than those they had last season and he also wanted to get boys accustomed to the philosophy of the first teams. It wouldn t be exact style of play because as coaches we have different personalities, but we can get as close as possible. We had to adopt that, we had to adopt the system of playing and all these things were in the plan. My understanding is that when these boys get promoted and they go to the first team, it must be a continuation of what they were learning at development, he said. It must not be a totally different environment. Minnie said the Chippa reserve team were no longer in the MDC league to add numbers but were there to compete. They definitely showed that this past season, having won eight matches, drawn four and lost five from 15 fixtures, finishing in seventh place on the log. Towards the end of their campaign the Chilli Boys had an impressive straight three wins, but lost their last match of the season 4-0 to Baroka. Minnie said for the team to reach the top spot this coming season, they would have to work hard and as a unit. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share