Australia and India s cricket boards sprang to the defence of their respective captains yesterday amid a spiralling war of words that soured the aftermath of the dramatic second test. India s 75-run victory on Tuesday in Bangalore, after Australia crashed to 112 all out, has left the four-match series between the world s top two sides tantalisingly poised at 1-1. But yesterday s headlines were dominated by Indian skipper Virat Kohli s accusation that Steve Smith abused the decision review system (DRS), after he was seen looking to the Australian dressingroom while considering appealing against his dismissal for lbw. The rules forbid players to consult with anyone off the pitch about whether to seek a review from the umpires, since support staff have access to television replays in the dressingroom. At the post-match media conference, Smith who was quickly waved off the field by the umpire admitted he had been at fault, but put it down to a one-off brain-fade . But an angry Kohli said that rather than being an isolated incident, it s been happening for the last three days . Although Kohli stopped short of accusing Smith of being a cheat, Indian newspapers were less diplomatic. Smith caught cheating, said an Indian Express headline while The Times of India dubbed the episode Cheatgate . Cricket Australia chief executive James Sutherland called any questioning of Smith s integrity outrageous. Sutherland, who was in Bangalore, said: Steve is an outstanding cricketer and person, and role model to many aspiring cricketers. We have every faith that there was no ill-intent in his actions. Coach Darren Lehmann also threw his weight behind Smith, saying the current crop of tourists were well aware of their responsibilities after previous spats between the two teams. [Kohli] has his opinion and we have ours, but we play the game the right way, Lehmann said on Cricket Australia s website. Amid a clamour among former Indian players for Smith to be sanctioned, the Indian board [BCCI] said it had raised his behaviour with the International Cricket Council while launching its own defence of Kohli. Mr Virat Kohli is a mature and seasoned cricketer and his conduct on the field has been exemplary, the BCCI said. BCCI has requested the ICC to take cognisance of the fact that the Australian skipper Mr Steve Smith in his press conference admitted to a brain fade . BCCI sincerely hopes that the rest of the matches are played in the true spirit of cricket. But late yesterday the ICC said no action would be taken against the players and they would bring both the captains together to clear the air ahead of the third test match. The next test begins in Ranchi next Thursday. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share