Breathtaking views and being within walking distance of popular beaches are what make Humewood and Humerail appealing options for people wanting to move to PE. Residents in these areas are lucky enough to practically live on the beach. Humewood resident Eduan James, manager, Ignite Fitness (the newest gym in PE), says the location is ideal for him and his wife, who both moved to Port Elizabeth from Cape Town last year. The biggest drawcard for me and my wife was the fact that we are close to the ocean. It s close to everything we need and we have easy access to other parts of the city. Eduan says that although they have not been in the suburb for very long, he has noticed that there are new areas being developed and that there seem to be big plans on the way for Humewood and Humerail, and he s not wrong. The area is set to see changes in the future with reports of the Virgin Active in Humerail being upgraded, as well as the introduction of the Waterfront Business Park. The area boasts multimillion rand properties and the development and construction of modern, energy-efficient buildings, which sport double-glazed facades, and which were designed to maximise the views of the harbour and the bay. During the week, the area is not very busy, but over the weekend the vibe changes. As the weekend starts there is much more life in the area, which creates a whole different tone, says Eduan. The area includes a Virgin Active gym, Clicks, SuperSpar and a variety of popular restaurants and cocktail bars to suit all tastes and budgets. The beautiful beaches are a definite bonus. For those who don t enjoy feeling the sand between their toes but would still like to go swimming, the area also includes the popular McArthur Baths Swimming Pool Complex. It s perfect for spending the day swimming with the kids or working on that summer tan. The area is well established with traditional as well as more modern homes, like Eduan s house. Our home is spacious and very comfortable. The balcony has the perfect view of the sunrise in the morning and is a great spot to unwind after a crazy week. There are also plenty of apartments in the surrounding area which differ in size, says Eduan. He also says that the area is safe and close to good schools. Humewood is an up-and-coming part of Port Elizabeth with sizeable investment being pumped into it. With its old-school charm as well as modern features, it appeals to homeowners and business owners alike. PROPERTY PRICES The property in Humewood and Humerail is dominated by apartments, with 29% houses, 66% apartments and around 5% in a complex. The median asking price for a typical property such as a two-bedroom apartment is R950,000. You can expect to pay around R1,77m in a complex, R1.13m for a flat and R3.13m for a house. The median monthly asking price is R12,000 for a two-bedroom flat. Expect to pay rent of about R8,960 in a complex, R13,220 for a flat and R19,500 for a house. THINGS TO DO Visit the Kings Beach Flea Market. Spend the day at the McArthur Baths Swimming Pool Complex. Enjoy the Supertubes at Kings Beach. Swim at Humewood Beach or Kings Beach. Enjoy a family picnic or informal game of soccer in Happy Valley. Take the kids to Bayworld. BEST IN FOOD RocoMamas Primi Coastal Blue Waters Cafe Barney s Tavern Ginger Restaurant at the Beach Hotel Raasoie Indian restaurant The Coachman on the Bay La Kouzina Company Social Brasserie NIGHTLIFE Finnezz Beershack Cubana White Tiger Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share