Tough decisions will face Southern Kings head coach Deon Davids when he sits down to name his 28-man Super Rugby squad to travel to Australia later this week. The squad will be named today ahead of the team flying overseas the following day for matches against three Australian franchises. The Kings start their tour with a match against the Western Force in Perth (April 9), before playing the Reds in Brisbane (April 15) and travelling to Sydney to play the Waratahs (April 22). Davids will not have any new injury problems to worry about when he names his squad. The Kings medical staff said they did not have any new injuries to report following the encounter with the Lions. Apart from the usual bumps and bruises that follow Super Rugby matches, Kings team doctor Konrad von Hagen confirmed the team would enjoy their first bye week of the season without any new injury concerns. Schalk Ferreira underwent a successful operation on his torn biceps, which was injured against the Sharks in Durban. The Kings captain has been ruled out of action for 12 to 16 weeks, and joins the long-term injury list which includes flanker CJ Velleman (knee), who is expected back in action next month, lock Cameron Lindsay (knee) and scrumhalf Rudi van Rooyen (ankle) both of whom are expected to make full recoveries in the next two months. Makazole Mapimpi, who was a late withdrawal from the match against the Emirates Lions last weekend due to a thigh injury, has been given the all-clear and will be available for selection. The EP Kings have named the team to play Border in a training game today. The match is a preparation for the SuperSport Rugby Challenge competition, which kicks off next month. The EP Kings team is: Johan van Wyk, Tango Balekile, Roche van Zyl, Wihan Coetzee, Sintu Manjezi, Lusanda Badiyana, Thembelani Bholi, Christiaan de Bruin, Ricky Schroeder, Garrick Matheus, Siyanda Grey, Johann Tromp, Stokkies Hannekom, Ntabeni Dukisa, Chrysanda Botha. Replacements: JP Jamieson, Xandre Vos, Dewald Barnard, Robert Lyons, Thapelo Molapo, Sibusiso Ngcokovane, Keanu Vers, Mabhutana Peter. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share