Owen da Gama. Picture: Anesh Debiky/Gallo Images The acrimonious relationships axed Bafana Bafana coach Shakes Mashaba had with certain players will remain in the past, as interim coach Owen da Gama stressed the importance of moving forward when he announced a promising squad yesterday. Da Gama has been guaranteed to take charge of Bafana s upcoming friendly internationals against Guinea-Bissau and Angola in a fortnight, even if a new coach is announced in the coming days. Da Gama included players in the squad who did not see eye-to-eye with Mashaba overseas based Kamohelo Mokotjo and Kermit Erasmus. Not long after the squad was announced, Erasmus took to social network Twitter to say: I m back, which encouraged Da Gama. Oh really? You see, that s what we want, Da Gama said when he heard about the tweet. Mokotjo, who retired from playing for Bafana, obtained Dutch citizenship and, in so doing, forfeited his South African passport. He can, however, apply for dual citizenship. Safa were unaware of this and now they ll scramble to find out if the player will be available to play in the upcoming friendlies. We should do everything in our power to get these players playing for Bafana, Da Gama said. Moving forward, according to Da Gama, also means bringing in youngsters who have proved themselves. Luther Singh, Percy Tau and Phakamani Mahlambi, three of the country s brightest attacking options for the future, have been included. Tau has shown he s ready to play internationally with some fantastic performances in the Caf Champions League for Mamelodi Sundowns, while Singh and Mahlambi have junior national team experience. Singh and Mahlambi will encourage other youngsters to work harder. It s a step in the right direction to give hope to youngsters, Da Gama said. Belgium-based Lars Veldwijk, meanwhile, will have an opportunity to impress after his forgettable debut against Mozambique in November. He was taken off after 45 minutes. In all honesty, Lars did not have a good start. But you don t bring in a player and cast him aside. You have to show confidence in players and allow them to settle, Da Gama said. Bafana will play Guinea-Bissau on March 25 at Moses Mabhida Stadium (3pm) and then against Angola three days later, at a venue yet to be announced. Squad: Goalkeepers: Itumeleng Khune, Darren Keet, Shuaib Walters Defenders: Ramahlwe Mphahlele, Rivaldo Coetzee, Thulani Hlathswayo, Mulomowandau Mathoho, Lorenzo Gordinho, Diamond Thopola, Tebogo Langerman Midfielders: Hlompho Kekana, Thabo Mnyamane, Keagan Dolly, Andile Jali, Kamohelo Mokotjo, Tiyani Mabunda, Dean Furman, Themba Zwane Strikers: Thulani Serero, Percy Tau, Lebogang Manyama, Phakamani Mahlambi, Lars Veldwijk Kermit Erasmus, Luther Singh Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share