WATER ACES: Members of the Infinity Swimming Club celebrate their success at the Newton Park Swimming Pool Picture: BRIAN WITBOOI The Infinity Swimming Academy travelled to the SA Junior National Competition in Durban last week, finishing ninth out of 98 clubs. The academy has been open for only a year. Head coach David Glover said he was thrilled with how the club had taken off and the swimmers exceeded his expectations at the event. Of the 20 swimmers at the gala, 16 made it into the finals (top 10 in South Africa) and three finished in the medals. Twelve-year-old Dennis de Villiers won two golds, a silver and two bronzes, with his best race coming in the 200m backstroke, where he won by five seconds, clocking a 2.25.75. Jordan Denyer, 12, and Cullen Biddulph, 14, both had fantastic meets, winning bronze medals in the 200m breaststroke and 50m butterfly respectively. Over the past weekend, the Newton Park Swimming Pool played host to the SA National Level 2 and 3 competitions. NMBA aquatics took on the massive task of hosting the two galas over one weekend and huge congratulations must go to them on the smooth running. Many of our Bay swimmers performed extremely well at the competition, winning many medals for the province. Ethan Renze, 12, from PEA was one of the stars of the Level 3 gala, winning 11 individual medals. He achieved personal best times in all his events and won eight golds and three silvers. Meagan Horton, 13, was the star for Team Watersmart, winning three gold medals and a silver, with her best performance in the 400m freestyle, where she finished in a time of 5.00.28. Infinity s Kyle White won six individual medals, with his best performances in the breaststroke events. He won gold in the 50m and 200m breaststroke, smashing his previous bests. Kayla Schmelzer, who represented PEA, but now swims with Infinity, also excelled, winning four silvers and three bronzes. Mark Jorna, 13, from Bay Eagles showed class in the freestyle events, winning gold in both the 50m and 100m freestyle events. He also had a great swim in the 200m freestyle, finishing with a silver medal. Aquabear s Slater Black and Cole Craig both had great galas. Slater, 15, won four medals and Cole, 16, three. Their best performances came in the 200m backstroke, with times of 2.21.90 and 2.19.18 respectively. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share