Fraud suspect Mark Michaels disappeared minutes before he was due to appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate&#8217;s Court Fraud suspect who fled from court allegedly went on vehicle shopping spree and dodged payment A suspected con artist, who escaped from a court dock minutes before he was due to appear before a magistrate, appears to have been on a shopping spree for vehicles in Port Elizabeth prior to his arrest in Summerstrand. Two shocked residents, who read about Capetonian Mark Michaels in The Herald yesterday, said they too had fallen prey to his alleged swindles. Confirming this, police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said at this stage, police were investigating five cases of fraud against Michaels, 30, of Rondebosch. Ten days ago, he allegedly arrived at BDC Motorbike s showroom in Newton Park wanting to buy a 2012 Yamaha motorbike worth R82 000. Yesterday, BDC owner Brett Chapple said Michaels had arrived at the showroom on February 27 in a Mercedes-Benz with three other men. After a brief discussion, he had indicated his intention to buy the Yamaha, Chapple said. We went to my office, where he . . . pretended to transfer the money. He showed me on his phone that he had done it via electronic fund transfer [EFT]. He pressured me, saying he needed the bike now, for a ride in East London, Chapple said. He asked Michaels about a helmet as he did not appear to have one. When I asked him about the helmet, he said he would get it from his friend who works around the corner. He was so bloody convincing, Chapple said. Michaels rode the motorbike out of the showroom without a helmet. As the Mercedes-Benz pulled away, Chapple said, he realised the car had no number plate in front and he suspected it also had a false number at the back. While he waited for the money to reflect in his account, Chapple said, he had seen the EFT statement was full of spelling and typing errors and realised he had been swindled. He has now put up a R21 000 reward for the safe return of the motorbike and the arrest and conviction of the culprit. In another incident, a Port Elizabeth couple claim Michaels bought their Nissan bakkie, but the money he alleged he had paid has still not reflected in their account. The couple, who did not want to be named, said they had agreed to fetch Michaels in Motherwell so he could view the vehicle. He looked at the condition of the bakkie and after he spoke to his father over the phone, he showed interest, saying he would buy, the woman, 32, said. The couple say he told them he had left his wallet behind and asked if he could use their phone to transfer the R80 000 into their account. When the transaction was done, he drove off in the bakkie, but the ownership documents were left with the couple, pending reflection of the money into their bank account. He said it would take 48 hours for this to happen, but when it did not, we phoned him and he promised to make a direct deposit, which has not happened. His phone is off. Michaels was due to appear in court last Friday for allegedly defrauding the owner of a VW Golf out of R350 000 and not paying for stays in two beachfront hotels. Sun International spokesman Michael Farr said six people, including Michaels, had booked two rooms at the Boardwalk Hotel on February 27. They produced an EFT record of payment which was initially accepted by a staff member, but upon closer scrutiny the hotel found that the document purporting payment contained typing and spelling errors, Farr said. We reported the matter to the police, but he had checked out earlier. Farr said Michaels and his entourage had accumulated a R9 000 bill for accommodation, not R25 000 as previously reported by the police. Michaels resurfaced at the Protea Marine Hotel in Marine Drive, where he allegedly made out he was a father booking a room for his son. His bill amounted to R7 000. Protea Marine general manager Cassandra Gayapursat confirmed that Michaels had been arrested at the hotel, but declined to give further details, saying the matter was subject to a police probe. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share