Hugh Jackman as Wolverine in &#8216;Logan&#8217; Five readers can win double tickets for the IMAX screening of the new film Logan at Baywest Mall on Saturday night. This is likely to be the final chance for fans to see their hero Wolverine in action as it is the last time Australian actor Hugh Jackman will be filling the role of Wolverine in the X-Men franchise. The film is set in the near future, when a weary Logan cares for an ailing Professor X in a hide-out on the Mexican border. But Logan&#8217;s attempts to hide from the world and his legacy are up-ended with the arrival of a young mutant, being pursued by dark forces. Popcorn and soda are included in the ticket prizes, which is for the 8pm screening at Baywest. To win one of the five prizes, send an SMS with the word LOGAN and your name to the number 41893. SMSes should be kept to a maximum of 320 characters at a charge of R1.50 per 160 characters. Free minutes do not apply and errors are billed. The cut-off for entries is noon tomorrow, so that the winners can be notified shortly thereafter. This is likely to be the final chance for fans to see their hero Wolverine in action as it is the last time Australian actor Hugh Jackman will be filling the role of Wolverine in the X-Men franchise. The film is set in the near future, when a weary Logan cares for an ailing Professor X in a hide-out on the Mexican border. But Logan&#8217;s attempts to hide from the world and his legacy are up-ended with the arrival of a young mutant, being pursued by dark forces. Popcorn and soda are included in the ticket prizes, which is for the 8pm screening at Baywest. To win one of the five prizes, send an SMS with the word LOGAN and your name to the number 41893. SMSes should be kept to a maximum of 320 characters at a charge of R1.50 per 160 characters. Free minutes do not apply and errors are billed. The cut-off for entries is noon tomorrow, so that the winners can be notified shortly thereafter. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share