Malesela recovers from health scare as Chilli Boys host Wits Chippa United will have to make do without inspirational coach Dan Dance Malesela when they host high-flying Wits in their Premier Soccer League (PSL) clash at the Sisa Dukashe Stadium in Mdantsane tonight (kickoff 7.30pm). The animated coach is recovering in a Port Elizabeth hospital after being admitted with a suspected heart condition on Sunday. Club chairman Chippa Mpengesi confirmed that Malesela would not be on the bench tonight. I spoke to him [on Sunday] and he told me about the pain, but after an hour I heard that his condition became serious and he was taken to hospital, he said. I think it s something to do with his heart, but I m not sure. Chippa spokesman Luthando Zibeko and chief operating officer Lukhanyo Mzinzi visited Malesela in hospital yesterday. Zibeko said doctors were still conducting tests on Malesela to find out the problem. The coach is strong. He was still making jokes and smiling. What s important for us is that [he] is recovering well in hospital, he said. Meanwhile, Chippa have failed to win in their last five PSL outings, something that striker Rhulani Manzini says must change tonight. While Chippa are eyeing a top-eight position, the rampant Wits will go to the top of the standings with 40 points should they beat Malesela s charges. Out of a possible 15 points from their last five games, Chippa picked up only three after drawing with Mamelodi Sundowns (twice) and Lamontville Golden Arrows. The Port Elizabeth-based side has been one of the must-watch teams this season with their entertaining carpet football. But Manzini admitted that not winning was putting them under pressure as they aim to finish in the top eight. The teams behind us are also winning, so we need the points. We have to go there, work very hard and get the three points because one point will not be enough, he said. But it is easier said than done as Wits have been in fine form in their quest to win the club s first PSL title. The hosts will have to be on top of their game if they are to be only the fourth team to get the better of Gavin Hunt s men. Second-placed Wits have been ruthless in their last five games, scoring an impressive 15 goals while only conceding four in their four victories. Manzini said they were aware that Wits were a quality side. But Chippa is also a very good team. We have just been unlucky, he said. We respect Wits but we won t show them any respect on the pitch. We ll have to start winning [tonight] because it s not good when you come back next season and you re not in the top eight while other teams are playing. That s why we ll push very hard and try to win and do it for the fans and the coach as we have a lot of support in East London, he said. The top-flight starved fans are expected to fill the stadium once again as they have done since Chippa decided to play some of their home games in Mdantsane this season. The Chilli Boys are still unbeaten at their home away from home. They beat Highlands Park in December and drew with Sundowns and Arrows last month. As a result of their single win this year, Chippa are in 11th spot with 21 points from 19 games. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share