President Jacob Zuma wielded the axe with abandon last night, chopping several ministers and deputies. Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan was the first casualty in the dramatic cabinet reshuffle that unfolded. Former Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba was appointed the new finance minister, while MP Sfiso Buthelezi was made his deputy in place of Mcebisi Jonas. Gordhan&#8217;s removal is set to have far-reaching consequences for Zuma and the ANC Gigaba is seen as a close ally of the president and is among his loyalists in the cabinet. Analysts say the two are likely to be under intense scrutiny due to the profile of the Treasury and the circumstances surrounding the removal of Gordhan and Jonas. The extent of the cabinet reshuffle and the dramatic manner in which it was handled is devastating Anne Fruhauf vice-president at New York-based risk adviser Teneo Intelligence, said. Gigaba and Buthelezi are both in the Zuma camp and the circumstances under which they have been appointed to the Treasury will cast a long shadow over their credibility. Zuma met ministers at his official residence in Pretoria after earlier summoning his other top five ANC leaders at short notice at 6.30pm. By 9.30pm he had delivered the news a cabinet bloodbath was about to unfold. As news of the reshuffle broke, the rand lost ground and by 11.15pm was trading at R13.41 to the dollar. On Monday the currency had hit a 20-month high of R12.30. Analyst Ebrahim Fakir said: The implication now depends on what those who threatened to walk out do. We will have to see what the ANC caucus does, but I suspect the president wouldn t have made this decision unless [he had support]. He must have caucused this with at least some of the top leadership of the ANC and got their support because, remember, one of their conditions was that he should not make Brian Molefe [finance minister]. For me the real test is going to be, will the rand rally and pick up from the damage? I don t think we should fuel speculation to the extent that this is the end of South Africa and we can t ever recover from here, Fakir said. The reshuffle comes three days after Zuma told the ANC top five he wanted to get rid of Gordhan and Jonas. He was armed with an intelligence report claiming Gordhan was conspiring with overseas investors to topple him. His plan caused ructions, with at least three members of the ANC s top six leaders refusing to support Gordhan s axing, reports said. Earlier yesterday, reports emerged that Zuma was facing a rebellion within his party, with the Bloomberg news agency quoting sources as saying about 12 cabinet ministers were considering resigning and then fighting for his removal. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and some deputy ministers might also resign. The Operation Checkmate intelligence report, which purports to show that Gordhan planned to meet UK and US figures who want to overthrow the government, has also been rubbished by opposition political parties. EFF leader Julius Malema compared the report to the work of a child in early childhood development classes . The salvoes against Zuma yesterday began with the SA Communist Party denouncing growing abuse of state security organs and their meddling in daily political life. The DA said it would push for a vote of no confidence in Zuma and the EFF filed papers in the Constitutional Court asking that parliament be ordered to take disciplinary action against Zuma for breaking his oath of of fice. The Constitutional Court found last year Zuma had failed to uphold, defend and respect the constitution in disregarding public protector Thuli Madonsela s findings on the refurbishment of his Nkandla home at taxpayers expense. Malema said his party wanted the court to force parliament to institute action against Zuma. If the court can become involved in matters like the SA Social Security Agency debacle then it can force parliament to carry out its constitutional mandate, Malema said. We ask that the court orders parliament to carry out its constitutional duties. Disciplinary proceedings were needed to get Zuma to account to all South Africans. Once that process is started, we parliamentarians will remove Zuma through a vote of no confidence, he said. Section 89 of the constitution says a president can be removed by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority vote if found to have violated the constitution. A president can also be removed for misconduct or incapacity. SACP second deputy secretary Solly Mapaila denounced gangsterism within the state and said rogue elements were busy with irrelevant things to hype up the president s decisions. Zuma informed us of his intention to effect a cabinet reshuffle replacing both the minister and deputy minister of finance. We objected, he said. He said that although Zuma had the constitutional power to remove Gordhan he was deployed to his office by the ANC and had to implement ANC mandates. The SACP is gravely concerned over the increasing abuse of state security organs and their meddling in daily political life, he said. We are aware of a rogue intelligence unit that in our view gathers data illegally produces false reports and feeds them into the political and public domain to smear comrades. Mapaila described Zuma s Operation Checkmate report as nonsense. How can you believe that a minister with a delegation of business and trade union leaders organised an investment trip to go and look for people to invest in our country is a trip against the country? Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share