Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan With beautiful homes and quiet streets, you would be forgiven for thinking that the neighbourhood of Mount Croix is a backdrop for a family TV series. The suburb is neatly tucked away between Cape Road and North End, is upmarket without being pretentious and a great place to raise a family. Close to schools and parks, with the only real traffic occurring during school drop-off times, Mount Croix is one of the most sought-after neighbourhoods in Port Elizabeth. It s also situated just behind the Provincial Hospital and has a reliable bus service. It s a popular choice for growing families as well as retirees looking for scenic surroundings in which to enjoy their time with family and friends. The large, mostly classically designed, often double-storey homes of the area boast views of the Indian Ocean. With the Port Elizabeth s Blue Flag beaches 10 to 15 minutes away, residents are close enough to enjoy the ocean but also far enough not to be affected by the hustle and bustle of tourist seasons. Westbourne Road, with its many shops, boutiques and eateries, is close to Mount Croix, offering shopping convenience. Cape Road with its multitude of restaurants and businesses is also nearby, making the suburb well placed. The area has two parks where children can play and an active neighbourhood watch. Steeped in history, Mount Croix is also the site for one of two Nelson Mandela Bay memorials dedicated to the women and children who suffered and died in the British concentration camps during the Anglo Boer War (1899 1902). The best part about the area is that it s near good schools and that you have easy access to freeways to get to the beach, university or shopping malls, says resident Karin Matthys. PROPERTY PRICES The median asking prize is R1,65-million for a typical property (three-bedroom house) SCHOOLS Erica Girls Primary School Lawson Brown High School Parsons Hill Primary School WHERE TO EAT Kings Arms: a casual pub-style eatery Picasso s Pizza Bar: for takeaway pizzas and pastas Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share