Get ready for the big and the bold and the return of excess and maximalism to the catwalks this autumn/winter. This according Marie Claire South Africa editor Jackie May who said the thread that runs through many of the trends we have identified for this season, is oversized . There are the oversized sunglasses, big boots, big shoulders, exaggerated and unusual silhouettes, bold colours and loud prints, she said. It s the return of maximalism, and the season s giving a big head s up to creative director at Gucci Alessandro Michele, who has been hailed as the movement s spiritual leader . This is all good and well, but why are we being big and bold during these tough times? May said it s a reflection of how we re feeling strong, confident and powerful. The expression of confidence is in defiance of holding back, and of keeping ideas to ourselves and our mouths shut, she explained. One of the hottest fashion trends we will be seeing this winter is the hiking and/or the biker boot being worn with fishnet stockings and pretty winter dresses. The hiking boot is a show of strength and health, and a don t mess with me attitude. And the biggest beauty trend we can expect to see this season? May said that glitter make-up with a strong reference to the 80s will brighten all our days. She added: Bold lipsticks will also be popular. Times are still tough in South Africa. And although we ll be buying a few of the new trends to update our wardrobes, the bold lipstick colours will, and can, update all looks at very little cost. With regard to how the Marie Claire team forecasts fashion and beauty trends, May said they forecast fashion and beauty trends by watching and reading everything they can about what designers present at fashion shows around the world. She continued: I read reports on fashion shows and especially love Vanessa Friedman and Lisa Armstrong. I watch the fashion shows the international ones are live-streamed, thankfully and the local ones are always fun to attend. Instagram is a great tool for finding out what influencers wear and what is being worn on the street. Following creative campaigns and reading international magazines (both old and new) are important too as they help inspire ways in which we will interpret trends, taking into account where our readers buy clothes and how they wear clothes. In other words, we have to interpret trends for South African readers. As a team we collate the big trends of the season, which we analyse and present to our readers on our beautiful fashion pages throughout the year. She said that if you re watching all the shows and reading what commentators say about them, you pick up the common threads quite easily. The designers are, in turn, responding and commenting on their cultural and social environments. May said that what s happening in US politics is having a big impact on fashion and that we ll be seeing that in our spring-summer trends. The current autumn and winter trends are a reaction, you could say, to too many years of recession and of holding back. Fashion makes a fun but relevant comment on our times. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share