HARD YARDS: Madibaz Sevens rugby star Eloise Webb, left, goes through her warm-up routine with Arne Rust at a training session. Webb will be part of the South African team at the Vancouver Rugby Festival in Canada next week Picture: Supplied Madibaz Sevens rugby star Eloise Webb will get another opportunity to display her skills at the highest level when she jets off to the Vancouver Rugby Festival. The NMMU third-year education student will make her second appearance for South Africa in the Canadian tournament, which takes place on March 9 and 10. The East London-born player made her debut against Australia in the Dubai leg of the World Rugby Women s Sevens Series in December. Although the South Africans suffered a 38-5 loss, flyhalf Webb said the experience boosted her confidence. My mentality as a player changed because I realised we are capable of playing against teams we normally only see on television, she said. We finished eighth after losing to New Zealand in the quarterfinals, but for a team that was only there by invitation and not one of the core teams, we felt it was an excellent result. Webb explained that 11 regular teams and one qualifier competed in each leg of the world series to make up the full complement of 12. Next month, the team will head to Hong Kong for the World Rugby Women s Sevens Series qualifier, where the winners will qualify as one of the core teams for the 2017-18 series and also earn an entry into the final event in France this June. Webb said the team had been training hard to improve their fitness and overall skills. We train three times a day and each day consists of two field sessions and gym, she said. Our focus is not only on individual skills, but on the team as a whole. Despite only getting the better of the US in their six matches in Dubai, Webb believes their progress will be evident in the coming weeks. I feel we have worked hard and if we carry this forward we should do well. She said their 26-7 victory over the US was something positive to focus on in future matches. It shows we are capable of competing against top teams on the world circuit we just need to keep working hard. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share