NEW ROLE: Chippa United s Paseka Mako. Picture: RICHARD HUGGARD The future is bright for young Paseka Mako, Chippa United coach Dan Malesela said. Mako was one of the key contributor s in the team s recent Nedbank Cup win over Witbank Spurs. They beat the National First Division side 1-0 to book themselves a spot in the last 16 of the competition for the first time in five attempts. And it was Mako s crisp pass to Lerato Manzini which saw the Chilli Boys take the honours against Spurs. The 22-year-old centre-back won the man-of-the-match accolade. The energetic player joined Chippa from Cape Town All Stars at the start of the season. I have always known there is potential in Paseka, Malesela said. I ve always seen the hunger to want to play football. He has the discipline to want to get to the top and I think this is paving the way for him to go somewhere. If I count the matches he has played, there are very few times I can point a finger and say he made a mistake there. I know he is grounded. He just needs to stay the same person. His lifestyle is good. He is not the kind of person who will gallivant at night, and he doesn t drink or smoke. I also think he doesn t have a girlfriend. After the departure of Marc van Heerden to Orlando Pirates, the coach was left with the headache of searching for a replacement. He decided to convert Mako, who was a midfielder, to a defender. Us converting him to left-back was not just me taking a chance, it was me seeing that there is potential. I ve seen what I know would be some of our best wingers here and he has outplayed them. He should just shine. The sky is the limit you grow that way. Since taking over the new position, Mako has played a vital role in making sure the Chilli Boys defence is tight. He said he had not hesitated when he was approached by the coach after Van Heerden left. The coach told me that there was no one that could play that position after Marc left the team. I had to play for the club and not for me, in order to help the club go forward, he said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share