The best way to maintain the legacy of late ANC stalwart Ahmed Kathrada is to fulfil his dream and that of his fellow veterans and correct the wrongs in the ruling party, former South African president Thabo Mbeki said yesterday. We have lost one of the giants of our struggle, Mbeki said. To lose a person like [him], with his experience, is very painful. Kathrada, 87, died at about 4am yesterday in a Johannesburg hospital after suffering complications from a medical procedure to deal with clotting on the brain. He was one of the last three remaining Rivonia trialists the other two being Andrew Mlangeni and Dennis Goldberg. Former Robben Island prisoner and ANC veteran Ahmed Kathrada at Waterkloof Airbase before the body of the former first black president of democratic South Africa was flown from Waterkloof military Airbase to Qunu, Eastern Cape, the home of Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela prior the funeral. December 14, 2013 Picture: Tsheko Kabasia. Sowetan / Sunday World. FRONT ROW SEATS TO HISTORY: Anti-apartheid activists and lawyers Ahmed Kathrada , Lord Joel Joffe, Andrew Mlangeni, Denis Goldberg, Leslie Schermbrucker and George Bizos in the front row at Wits University yesterday for a seminar honouring the late Bram Fischer. MARCH 26, 2015 Picture: ALON SKUY. THE TIMES Ahmed Kathrada during a tour of Robben Island, Cape Town, South Africa. Struggle icon, Kathrada, is the face of a new app developed by Robben Island Museum and Google which allows international viewers access to a virtual tour of the world heritage site. The tour uses Google Street view, video, audio and archival photographs to transport the viewer making the tour as accurate as possible. April 22, 2015 Picture: Gallo Images / Foto24 /Lerato Maduna LONG WALK TO HONOUR. Struggle stalwart Ahmed Kathrada , centre, Barbara Hogan, and former deputy president Kgalema Motlanthe at Bastille Day celebrations in Pretoria at which Kathrada received a Legion of Honour award from French ambassador Elisabeth Barbier. July 14, 2015 Picture: SIZWE NDINGANE. The Times. Political members celebrated 20 years of Mandela release from Victor Vester prison in Paarl, Cape Town. Mac Maharaj, Matthews Phosa, Nomvula Mokonyane, Cyril Ramaphosa, Ahmed Kathrada, Zweli, Rejoice Mabudafasi, Mlangeni, Mosualedi, unknown. 11 February, 2010 Picture: Moeketsi Moticoe/ The Times. Soweto Soccer Stadium, Johannesburg, South Africa. ANC Rally, after Nelson Mandela&#8217;s release from prison. From left to right: Ahmed Kathrada, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, Nelson Mandela and Walter Sisulu.13 February 1990 Picture: Die Burger/Media24/ Gallo Images Desmond Tutu and Ahmed Kathrada for the launch of a new exhibition on struggle stalwarts Walter Sisulu and his wife Albertina. 11 March 2008 Picture: James Oatway/ Sunday Times. MAKING A DIFFERENCE: The letter and bangle sent to Ahmed Kathrada while in prison and a silver 46664 bangle. July 2008 Picture: Circa Barack Obama tours Robben Island, South Africa with Ahmed Kathrada. Robben Island, off the coast of Cape Town, is where Nelson Mandela was imprisoned as was Kathrada who was prisoner #468. August 20, 2006 Picture: Pete Souza/Chicago Tribune/MCT via Getty Images Dr Ntatho Motlana (left) and Ahmed Kathrada (Kathy) shortly after Kathrada was released from life imprisonment on Robben Island on October 15, 1989. October 21, 1989 Picture: Joe Sefale. Sunday Times/ Times Media Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share