Duncan Faure, top left, when he was part of the band Rabbit Rock royalty Duncan Faure, best known in South Africa as a member of 1970s boy band Rabbitt, is coming to Port Elizabeth for a one-night performance at The Music Kitchen in Newton Park next week as part of a national tour. With a rock n roll career spanning four decades, Faure, now based in Las Vegas in the US, will be performing original tracks as well as songs from his time with both Rabbitt and the Scottish pop-rock band Bay City Rollers, who sold more than 50 million records worldwide. Born in Pretoria, Faure moved to Las Vegas in 1978 before returning to South Africa just before Mandela was released from prison and then going back to Vegas in 2005, where he has lived since. Moving to Las Vegas has been good training for me but obviously, with moving, I left my friends and family, which I missed. But my brother, Donovan, still lives here, Faure said. Rabbitt was a pop rock phenomenon of its time that captured the imagination of a generation, going platinum and generating unprecedented mania among screaming fans who flocked to sold-out shows to catch iconic songs like Charlie and Lonely Loner Too. Faure recalled one of the best moments of his first time in Vegas back in 1978, when he shared a limo with the Jackson Five to catch The Rolling Stones live in concert. My manager at the time, Freddy de Mann, picked me up in this limo and after I got in, Michael, Tito and Jackie also got in and, like the fan I was, I opted to sit in the passenger seat in front and they sat at the back, Faure said. Other career highlights include vocal contributions Faure made to Madonna s Who s That Girl soundtrack and also being inducted into the Rock Godz Hall of Fame in Vegas in 2014. A husband and father of two, Faure said South Africa had come a long way since his days with Rabbitt. Back in my day, things weren t easy for a lot of people here but now it s a beautiful country because when I was a kid, it was a really awful place to live, he said. Faure said his show was two hours long, with one-hour sets, and that patrons could expect to hear a little bit of everything, from his own songs to Rabbitt and Bay City Rollers tunes. Expect some crazy person on stage where you might get to hear the piano and just have a good time and possibly [hear] a Billy Joel cover, he chuckled. The PE show on Wednesday starts at 7.30pm and tickets are R150 per person. For bookings, contact 072-994-5096. While on the tour, Faure will be joined by top South African musicians under the direction of Mel Botes. Other Eastern Cape and Garden Route shows include: Saturday April 8: The Barnyard Theatre, Plettenberg Bay from 8pm. Tickets R200. Bookings: www.barnyardplett.co.za Sunday April 9: Blend Country Restaurant and Pub in Knysna from 4pm to 6pm. Tickets R200 on 084-587-6665. &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share