Carlos Queiroz Picture: Rogan Ward Queiroz set to get Bafana post if salary demand resolved, otherwise Renard will be appointed The South African Football Association (Safa) technical committee has recommended Carlos Queiroz for the vacant Bafana Bafana coaching job, but the former Real Madrid mentor s salary demands are the final hurdle delaying his appointment. Queiroz earned around R20-million a year as Iran coach and should Safa fail to reach an agreement with him today, Frenchman Herv Renard will be introduced to the media on Friday. The race for the job is now down to the two men and one of them will take over a seat that has been vacant since Ephraim Shakes Mashaba s sacking in December. Safa hopes to conclude salary negotiations and other related contractual discussions with one of the two men by today and bring the search to an end. Insiders said the length of the contract was expected to be another consideration and while qualifying for the 2018 World Cup is the ultimate goal, the new man must also keep an eye on the qualifiers for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations. Bafana play their opening 2019 Afcon qualifier against Nigeria in June. Queiroz had appeared to be the favourite to get the job a couple of days ago and the technical committee which includes former Bafana captain Lucas Radebe and Sundowns boss Anastasia Tsichlas confirmed the speculation when they made their recommendation to Safa. But while Safa removed the affordability clause from the Bafana coach criteria, officials still want the new man s salary to be within reason. Queiroz is a regular visitor to South Africa as he has family in Johannesburg. He is said to consider South Africa his second home and it is no secret that he has close friends at Safa House, including Safa president Danny Jordaan and chief executive Dennis Mumble. He is also a former Bafana coach and understands the tricky political dynamics that govern South African football very well. But given the furore that surrounded the revelation of Brazilian Carlos Alberto Parreira and his compatriot Joel Natalino Santana s obscene salaries a few years ago (the former earned R1.8-million a month while the latter took home R1.4-million a month), Safa could face objection to Queiroz unless he agrees to lower his demands. Renard s recent achievements on the continent give him a crucial advantage over Queiroz as he holds the unique distinction of winning the Nations Cup with Zambia in 2012 and Ivory Coast in 2015. He is also a regular visitor to South Africa and has never hidden his desire to work in this part of the world at some stage in his career. Safa is determined to make the announcement by Friday at the very latest as the new coach needs to start preparing for this month s friendly matches against Angola and Guinea-Bissau in Durban and Bloemfontein. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share