The CRISPAAAH Girls at the Redd&#8217;s Street Carnival Picture: BRIAN WITBOOI The lineup included performances from national artists including hip-hop trio Dream Team, house duo Black Motion and new kid on the block, Nasty C. Even though the Redd s set-up was smaller this year compared with previous years, Dash from Dream Team had only good things to say about the event and praised Port Elizabeth fans for coming out in their numbers. It s a smaller stage but the love from the people is still there, Dash said. There was a moment where we had to stop the show because people were going crazy because they were excited about the lineup. Big shout-out to Redd s for holding it down and big shout-out to PE for showing the love. Dream Team also revealed plans of dropping new music at the end of the month, with an EP called Level Up. We performed two new songs from the EP that people are loving so it s going to be a good one. Maybe an album too this year but we ll see, Dream Team said. Dance music duo Black Motion, made up of Robert Mahosana and Thabo Mabongwane, got people jumping up and down with their electrifying summer hit Imali and impressive dance moves. Mabongwane said the response to Imali had been amazing. It was an organic response, people just love the song and it s been doing great on the airwaves. It has even reached international radio stations, Mabongwane said. The crowds were too much for security personnel to handle as, just before Nasty C was due to perform, a throng of people pushed through the barricades and came in to the concert area to watch the remaining lineup. This irritated Hlubikazi Ntshona, of Walmer, who said: The carnival itself is great but it s just way too overcrowded. Elona Thamsanqa, a regular of the Redd s Street Carnival, said this year s lineup was a definite improvement and applauded the tight security. It s such fun. I love that I feel so at ease because of the tight security. Keep up the good work Redd s. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share