MORALE BOOSTER: Southern Kings Malcolm Jaer scores a try during their Super Rugby match against the Sunwolves at the Singapore National Stadium at the weekend Picture: GETTY IMAGES Fullback and flyhalf Jaer play big part in Kings Super Rugby win Tenacious fullback Masixole Banda and flying wing Malcolm Jaer rose to the occasion in winning style when the Southern Kings beat the Sunwolves 37-23 in Singapore. It was the Kings first Super Rugby win of the season and followed their defeat in the opening game against the Jaguares in Port Elizabeth. The victory also meant that the Kings achieved a double over the Japanese outfit, beating them in the corresponding fixture in Port Elizabeth last year. The win will boost the Kings morale ahead of what will be a much sterner examination of their Super Rugby credentials against the Stormers at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Saturday. The try scorers for the Kings, in hot conditions in Singapore, were Rudi van Rooyen, Chris Cloete, Ruan Lerm and Jaer. Cool-headed flyhalf Lionel Cronje kicked three conversions and four penalties in an immaculate display of kicking at poles. The Sunwolves fielded five players in their starting lineup who each had made just one Super Rugby appearance prior to the Kings game. Coach Filo Tiatia also handed debuts to scrumhalf Fumiaki Tanaka and flyhalf Hayden Cripps. As the game progressed it became clear the Japanese team were badly missing the services of two of last season s key players speedy wing Akihito Yamada and Samoan flyhalf Tusi Pisi. Former Springbok skipper Victor Matfield said the Kings would be very happy with the win. I think they were good on defence. Lionel Cronje controlled the game very well and the Kings used their opportunities, Matfield said. The Sunwolves made too many mistakes and, whenever they played good rugby, there was a turnover. The Kings capitalised on that. Former Springbok wing Breyton Paulse said the Kings had made South Africa proud and singled out Banda for special praise. The Kings were really scrambling on defence at times. The one player who stood out for me was Banda at fullback, Paulse said. When a team plays well and are scoring tries I always look for guys who do the donkey work, so to speak. Banda was really good on defence and had a good clean game. When he broke the line, he looked very pleasing. Kings head coach Deon Davids said he had brought Banda into the starting lineup to add spark after he axed Chrysander Botha, who wore the No 15 jersey against the Jaguares. We felt that Banda, when he came on against the Jaguares, brought some spark from the back and we wanted to see whether we could capitalise on that going forward, Davids said. It was Cronje who opened the scoring with a penalty two minutes into the game. The visitors extended their lead in the 15th minute when replacement scrumhalf Rudi van Rooyen went over for the first try. Earlier, livewire Jaer gathered a loose ball inside his 22 and launched a counter-attack. The flyer made good ground before off-loading to Van Rooyen who went over for the five-pointer. After this the Kings lead was never threatened by the home team, who looked dangerous on attack, but were guilty of making costly errors. Scorers: Sunwolves 23: Tries: Timothy Lafaele, Keni Fukuoka, Takaaki Nakazuru. Conversion: Hayden Cripps. Penalties: Cripps (2) Southern Kings 37: Tries: Rudi van Rooyen, Chris Cloete, Ruan Lerm, Malcom Jaer. Conversions: Lionel Cronje (4). Penalties: Cronje (3) Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share