Petrichenko Alexander and Natalia Odinokova in a scene from &#8216;Prince Igor It seems a case of From Russia with Love for, soon after Nelson Mandela Bay was enthralled by the antics of the Great Moscow Circus, the equally renowned Royal Moscow Ballet will grace our shores in the coming week. Last year theatregoers were amazed by the energetic and dramatic performances by the Royal Moscow Ballet Company and this time around the programme will be filled with intrigue and passion. Local organiser Monica Hewitson has over the years built up an excellent rapport with Johannesburg-based Russian cultural attach Edouard Miasnikov, and thanks to good audience support from our local balletomanes, Port Elizabeth has become a fixture in their tour schedule . We have a strong ballet base in Port Elizabeth, which is strengthened by visits from international touring companies, Hewitson said. This year s triple bill programme promises a brilliant tribute to the great Russian composers Rachmaninoff, Tchaikovsky and Borodin. In the first act of the programme the one-act ballet, Paganini, is accompanied by a musical score by Rachmaninov, which is followed by scenes from Tchaikovsky s classics Sleeping Beauty and The Nutcracker. The Polovtsian dance from the opera Prince Igor rounds off the three-act programme. While almost everyone knows the fairy tale stories of Sleeping Beauty and The Nutcracker, the ballet Paganini, developed with Rachmaninoff, teamed up with one of the world&#8217;s greatest choreographers, Michel Fokine, to create a story in dance based on the legend of the diabolically talented violinist Niccolo Paganini. Set to Rachmaninoff&#8217;s Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini, the Paganini ballet first premiered in 1939 in London. This year, the audience is in for an additional treat with some delightful young local talents in the mix. Eight young dancers aged between nine and 11 and all from local ballet studios will be taking part. Hewitson said the Nutcracker scene called for eight little angels to be part of the show. However it was not feasible to bring the young dancers from Russia. The much-acclaimed Polovtsian Dance from Prince Igor tells the tale of the Prince who leads a campaign against Khan of the Polovtsians and refuses to heed the warnings of his wife and his people, who interpret a recent eclipse as a bad omen. According to Hewitson, it will be the first time Port Elizabeth audiences will be introduced to the Polotsvian Dance. It s a dramatic and energetic piece of dance which is a perfect showcase for the agility of the Russian male dancers, she said. Audiences could expect an entertaining mix of classical ballet, highlighting the technical expertise of the Russian dancers, she said. The Royal Moscow Ballet will be at the Port Elizabeth Opera House for two nights only on Tuesday and Wednesday. Tickets at R200 to R300 each are available at Computicket. Bookings are essential and discounts are available for groups of 20 or more. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share