Richard von Wildeman Normally paddling in a harbour is strictly prohibited as the risks are obvious and extremely dangerous. However, today Bay paddlers have been afforded the rare opportunity of navigating their craft out of the port. Transnet has put together the Port Festival to encourage the public to interact with the lifeblood of the city and province. Starting from the main commercial slipway, surfski paddlers will race out the harbour towards Mount Road and return entering the eastern side. The NSRI will provide the necessary safety backup as there will still be the odd vessel entering the port. Phil Smith of the St Francis Paddling Club will be a major threat as he has put in many hours training over the last couple of months. Luke McNish is also regaining some form after a lengthy absence from the sport. And never count out the legend Rob Welsh in home waters as he has paddled here more than anyone. Tomorrow will see the King of The Harbour sprint for cash series, starting from 1pm. Six of the region s top paddlers will dice over 600m, which will provide some excitement for the visitors to the festival. Stuart Laing will hope his training on the North End Lake pays dividends as he prepares for the SA Sprints in April. Long distance open water swimming madman Kyle Main will attempt the Coega to PE Port swim at a distance of close on 20km. Main s swimming achievements have become well documented and this will be another achievement to tick off the list. Greg Louw won a second consecutive Little Fish Canoe Marathon last weekend after a faultless day on the fast and technical flowing waters. Second was Richardt von Mansberg a former World Marathon medallist, followed by Rob Welsh in third. Numbers for the event were down from the two previous editions and will be a worrying factor. With such varied choice, active people have the luxury of participating in multiple sporting codes and multiple events. It is becoming ever rarer to find athletes who dedicate themselves to a single sport becoming a master. Today there are many jacks of all trades and very few masters. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share