Picture: Salvelio Meyer Marketing coordinator Janice Janse van Rensburg, left, and her director, Michelle Muller Picture: Salvelio Meyer Radisson Blu&#8217;s general manager Yashvir Jithoo, left, and executive chef George Foley Picture: Salvelio Meyer Slow-roasted pork belly Picture: Salvelio Meyer Rack of lamb Picture: Salvelio Meyer Norwegian salmon Picture: Salvelio Meyer There are menu launches and then there are menu launches. It is no exaggeration to say I have attended a few, though some functions will, of course, always be more memorable than others and for different reasons. Certainly fairly near the bottom of my list would be the time our merry band of media munchers got invited to a brand new beachfront restaurant a few years ago. Imagine our, erm, surprise when we were not only sprinkled with holy water by the priest in attendance, but served buy- em-in-bulk cocktail viennas and sausage rolls instead of (as you would have expected) dishes representative of the owners new menu. At the opposite end of the spectrum, for me, would be Mauritian chef Bobby Doolooa s utterly unforgettable chef s table at the Boardwalk, very nearly 15 years ago to the day, when this relative gourmet groentjie was so smitten with Bobby s avocado ice cream that I begged him for the recipe, only to learn (to my heart valves horror) that it contained the yolks of 20 eggs. It s been a while since I have experienced a dinner on that sort of scale although, as lunches go, self-taught chef Annelie Oosthuizen s recent nine-course heritage-themed feast for members of an international food and wine society was a seaside stunner of note. My faith in creative and, dare I say, cutting-edge dining in the Bay was fully restored this week when the Radisson Blu launched its new menu with a show-stopping, stylish event that ticked all the boxes in terms of sophistication, showmanship and surprise. Our unsuspecting posse of media guests and bloggers (the latter seem to be everywhere nowadays) started the evening in the intimate bar lounge of Tabu, the hotel s swanky restaurant, where we feasted on tempting taster portions of starters from executive chef George Foley s new menu. The palate-pleasing morsels arrived in jaunty little bamboo boats and crafty paper cones. We washed them down with Hillock wines (who doesn t love a local success story) and we all thought that was really rather nice. Add some musica Italiana from continental charmer Eppie Angileri and it got even nicer. Next add a fun photo op that saw guests escorted to the exclusive private dining area of Tabu, where they could snap away, paparazzi style, at perfectly plated examples of the new starters and mains, and the evening was already a triumph. But the surprises just kept coming, setting the scene for a dizzyingly good (if trippy!) experience that took some of us close to the brink. Orgasmic offerings aside (and, yes, there were a few), the brink I am referring to here is the Blu s pants-wettingly high, 18th-floor rooftop, which is usually a TOS (Totally Off-limits Space). The Radisson s director of sales and marketing, Michelle Muller, was the one who d dreamed up the deliciously crazy concept, roping in staff from just about every department and spending the better part of a month to finalise a flawless programme. Team Radisson, led by their cheer-leading new GM, Yashvir Jithoo, masterfully transformed what is typically pigeon-poo terrain into a twinkling wonderland of dining delights. May I at this junction share that this particular beachfront building is so tall that the lift doesn t even go all the way to the top? We had to hoof it up another flight of stairs to access the roof, from where eagle-eyed security staff guided us to our starry seats (only the bloggers took selfies from the edge). Here, under a Bedouin tent from where the Bay s beautiful night skyline could be fully appreciated, we sampled mains like rack of lamb with creamy mash, seasonal veggies and a meaty gravy; mushroom, sage and blue cheese gnocci with truffle cream; and fantastic linefish, in this case kingklip, with sweet-potato mash, broccoli and prawn bisque sauce. The Protea wines from Anthonij Rupert kept flowing and Bay duo Umle Sounds (aren t they just wonderful?) provided the music for this proudly South African segment. But the enchantment was far from over. Just as we thought it was home time, out came another ace. This time it was one floor down to the presidential suite on the 17th floor, where dessert awaited us. These were devoured in a dreamlike daze to French tunes by another of the Bay s musical talents, Cedric Vandenschrik. I only found out afterwards that the refreshingly down-to-earth Yash, as everyone calls him, worked tirelessly behind the scenes to make sure every plate that left the temporary kitchen (secretly cordoned off on the 17th floor) was quite literally perfect. F&amp;B (food and beverage) man Tony Faniko was also on top form, as were all the staff involved in pulling off this truly one-of-a-kind event. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share