Colin Ingram of the Warriors in action during the Momentum One-Day Cup match against the Dolphins at St George s Park. Photo: Brian Witbooi. A brilliant hundred by Colin Ingram and a consummate performance with the ball saw the Warriors ease to a 130-run bonus-point victory over the Dolphins in their Momentum One-Day Cup cricket fixture at St George s Park last night. Having been set 275 for victory, the Dolphins got off to a flyer with boundaries flowing freely in the opening overs. But the home side pulled it back smartly in the best manner possible, by taking regular wickets. The loss of wickets and a climbing required run-rate eventually saw the Dolphins bowled out for only 144 in 35.1 overs. Veteran opener Morne van Wyk took to the Warriors bowlers in the early stages and looked his normal menacing self. He lost opening partner Vaughn van Jaarsveld (8) with the total on 18 after two overs and then Cody Chetty (10), well-caught by wicketkeeper Gihahn Cloete. Van Wyk kept attacking and got his team to 62 in the 11th over. But the introduction of the lion-hearted Aya Gqamane triggered his demise for 36 off a mere 25 balls. From that moment on it was all Warriors as they stemmed the flow of runs. Dolphins captain Khaya Zondo made a fighting 32, but for the rest it was a gentle capitulation. Gqamane was superb in taking two for 18 in seven overs, while Sisanda Magala also took two scalps. The spin trio of Jon-Jon Smuts, Colin Ackermann and Colin Ingram also played a sizeable role in reeling their opponents in. The Warriors move to East London to face the Titans at Buffalo Park tomorrow. Earlier, Ingram stole the show in chalking up his 15th limited-overs career hundred. It was a composed, well-executed innings from the experienced left-hander, who was playing in his 161st List A game. His effort, coupled with good innings from Ackermann (50) and Lesiba Ngoepe (43 not out), paved the way for the Warriors to post a competitive 274 for five wickets. Ingram was the rock that the home team built their innings around and he featured in three vital stands for the Eastern Cape franchise. The first came after the early dismissal of captain Smuts for six. Ingram came in at three to join Gihahn Cloete, who made a good 34 at the top of the innings, and together they posted 60 runs for the second wicket before Cloete was caught in the deep off the bowling of Kyle Nipper. That brought fit-again Ackermann to the crease. The classy allrounder missed the Wa rr i o r s last game against the Knights but returned as if he had never been gone, oozing class as he stroked the ball around the ground in making a fluent 50 off 66 balls, including five fours and a six. He and Ingram added 75 for the third wicket. When Ackermann was dismissed with the total on 150 for three, Ingram was joined by Lesiba Ngoepe, who looked in the mood to score runs from the outset. He proved the perfect partner to Ingram at the most opportune period of the innings and they banged a quick 62 runs off only 38 balls before Ingram was caught on the fence for 105 off the bowling of Prenelan Subrayen. His runs were made from 112 balls and included seven fours and two sixes. Ngoepe then gave the innings the impetus it needed at the end and eventually finished on an unbeaten, well-played 43 made in only 26 deliveries. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share