Kouga speaker Hontario Hendricks and Mayor Elza van Lingen during the state of the municipality address Picture: AVUYILE MNGXITAMA-DIKO While Kouga Municipality mayor Elza van Lingen announced yesterday that the contract for municipal manager Sidney Fadi was in the process of being extended, he was not aware of the decision yet. Fadi was meant to vacate the seat yesterday as his contract ended on February 28, but Van Lingen said during her state of the municipality address that she wanted Fadi to stay on for another three months. I have been in a process of getting an extension for him to help us in the next three months until we appoint a new municipal manager, she said. Asked about the extension, Fadi said he was not aware of it even though he attended the state of the municipality address. I cannot comment on that as I have not been informed. I know that today [yesterday] is my last day, he said. Fadi joined the Kouga Municipality in 1999 as a human resources official. But he worked for most of his years as the town s legal services manager before he was appointed municipal manager in 2011. He said he was happy with his achievements at the municipality. I am happy about what we have collectively achieved as a team. We are number one in the Eastern Cape in terms of good governance, according to the auditor-general. We have had three consecutive unqualified audits, he said. The mayor did indicate that there are still matters of emphasis from the AG that need to be addressed. But we have done good so far. If you look at our history, I think we were able to deliver a good municipality to the people. In her state of the municipality address yesterday, Van Lingen thanked Fadi for addressing an issue they had disagreed on. The two butted heads over the Humansdorp Waste Water Treatment Plant, which had sewage overflowing from it. I must thank [Fadi] very much for looking into the waste water treatment plant, she said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share