Brothers Aaron and Kevin Ulett took this photograph which forms part of the #ShareTheBay exhibition at the Athenaeum Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism s new #ShareTheBay exhibition at the Athenaeum has a kaleidoscope of contributors who range from a schoolboy to a university manager, a food blogger, grandmother, a policewoman and more. In fact, of the crop of 10 Instagrammers whose work is reflected on the walls, only two are professional photographers: Michael Sheehan and Thelma Nel. And, if you get a chance to look at it you ll find it upstairs at the Athenaeum in Athol Fugard (formerly Belmont) Terrace in Central until the end of this month you may be surprised at how professional this bunch of amateurs are, and how many different facets of the Nelson Mandela Bay metro they capture. Every time a snap is taken and posted on social media channel Instagram with #ShareTheBay in the caption, that image becomes a visual tourism ambassador, and NMBT has recognised this by continuing to use the popular hashtag long after its successful launch last year. By the middle of this week, there were 14 227 images with this hashtag on Instagram and that number grows daily. One of the exhibitors, the Dirsuwei family who explore the world in their Chasing the Rainbow travel blog, say #ShareTheBay is easy and catchy and it conveys a huge pride in our home town and spreads positivity about our area to both locals and visitors . That is the overall effect of the exhibition and another great aspect is that, if you like the images, you can buy a canvas print of your choice at a most reasonable price (R350 for A2 and R550 for A1). The proceeds from these sales are not going to the photographers but rather to taking underprivileged youngsters to one of the tourism attractions featured in their artwork: Addo Elephant National Park, one of the most popular venues for photographs by both tourists and locals. The 10 exhibitors are: Michael Sheehan, a selftaught professional photographer; Thelma Nel, a keen amateur photographer who is a grandmother. Nel learnt her craft under the wing of the late Barry Wilkins and Jill Sneezby; Anje Rautenbach, also known as the travel blogger Going Somewhere Slowly; Anje Rautenbach Brothers Aaron and Kevin Ulett: Kevin, 17, is still at school and Aaron is 20; Kerryn Botha, also known as the food blogger @A.Girl.Named.Kez; Police Warrant Officer Cindy Bester, who takes pictures in her spare time; Kerryn Botha Nelson Mandela University senior director of strategic planning Heather Nel has a sharp eye for the wonders of nature. Buli G Ngomane, former radio and television broadcaster turned businesswoman, expresses a slice of her creativity through her Instagram feed. Ayesha Cantor is co-owner of Kragga Kamma Game Park and loves to highlight wildlife. Ayesha Cantor Ralph and Sarah Dirsuwei and their three sons Jacob, Luke and Cian document their family travels in their blog Chasing the Rainbow. The family say they see their photo gallery as a collection of their richest life experiences. Catch #ShareTheBay at the Athenaeum from 9am to 4pm on week days, until the end of September. Entry is free. Inquiries: the Athenaeum on (041) 585-1041. Visit The Herald and Weekend Post website, www.heraldlive.co.za for a picture gallery of images on the exhibition. Chasing the Rainbow Related