Dudu Myeni Controversial SA Airways chairwoman Dudu Myeni s term was extended despite the national Treasury knowing that her appeal against a compliance notice had been dismissed. The notice, questioning her fitness as a director, was issued after the Companies and Intellectual Properties Commission (CIPC) had investigated two complaints about her conduct after Myeni had misrepresented an SAA board resolution on an aircraft deal. Pressure on Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba has increased after the CIPC wrote to the minister, informing him that Myeni s extension was illegal. Late last year, the commission found Myeni to have contravened two sections of the Companies Act and that she had acted in a manner inconsistent with the duties of a director. She corrected the misrepresentation after being ordered to do so, but also appealed against the finding. Her appeal was dismissed in June, but there has been no action from Gigaba s office. Instead, he informed Myeni on September 1 that her term would be extended. Gigaba spokesman Mayihlome Tshwete has said the department is studying the notice and its implications. Under Myeni, SAA has performed dismally and degenerated to the point that two international lenders refused to extend the terms of maturing loans earlier this year, leading to the Treasury bailing out SAA with more than R2-billion. It is understood that Gigaba, who had previously publicly said Myeni would leave, has been under pressure and lobbying from those who want Myeni retained. It is believed that attempts on his part to convince President Jacob Zuma of the need to remove Myeni have failed. The Treasury has previously said an extension to Myeni s term, to the airline s November 4 annual general meeting, was to allow the full SAA board to account, although there is no legal requirement for this. Last week, Gigaba s decision was also questioned when SAA members appeared before parliament s finance committee. It gave Gigaba seven days to review and provide documents that show the process followed to appoint Myeni. DA shadow deputy minister of finance Alf Lees said the compliance notice was serious, and why Myeni should be removed. I have no doubt her reappointment was not the decision of Minister Gigaba, he said. Related