A shadow hangs over the Algoa Bay Yacht Club While the controversial eviction of the Algoa Bay Yacht Club from its prominent spot in the Port of Port Elizabeth is still being considered by the national Ports Regulator, Transnet has put out a tender notice for the premises calling for applicants to establish a restaurant and bar on site. The three-year legal wrangle between the Algoa Bay Yacht Club and the Transnet National Ports Authority over rental for the land occupied by the yacht club was referred to the Ports Regulator after a draft court order was granted by the Port Elizabeth High Court last month, effectively giving the club six months to vacate. In court documents seen by Weekend Post, Transnet claimed the club owed them almost R2-million in overdue rental, while saying it also wanted the club to fork out more than R49 000 a month. This, said Transnet, was the market-related amount. Two weeks ago both parties were at the Ports Regulator head offices in Durban to have the matter dealt with. Algoa Bay Yacht Club chairman, commodore and long-standing member Alan Straton said by placing the tender Transnet was jumping the gun as the Ports Regulator still had to rule on the matter. Transnet National Ports Authority are challenging the Port Regulator s jurisdiction over land occupied by TNPA. Our feeling is that they [TNPA] are fighting very hard to not have the Port Regulator have jurisdiction, he said. The court order, agreed upon by both parties outside of court, effectively allows the club to continue operating until February 28 next year, after which it will be allowed to continue operations on a monthto-month basis should Transnet fail to secure a replacement tenant. The document further stated that, should the Yacht Club fail to pay its monthly rental, Transnet would have the right to issue a warrant of eviction which could see the club close down indefinitely. Transnet had not responded to a request for comment by the time of going to print last night. The legal executive for the Ports Regulator, Marissa Damons, said that the matter was sub judice and the Ports Regulator was not in a position to comment on the matter. Related