South Africa&#8217;s Kevin Anderson Picture: Getty Images New chief executive admits national body did not do enough to support star Tennis South Africa (TSA) chief executive Richard Glover has extended an olive branch to Kevin Anderson by admitting the organisation did not do enough to support him earlier in his career. Anderson 31 on Sunday became the first South African in the open era to play in a grand slam singles final at the US Open in New York. World No 1 Rafael Nadal won the match 6-3 6-3 6-4 to claim his 16th grand slam title. But it was Anderson s road to the final that captured South Africa s imagination and led to some introspection at TSA. One of Glover s priorities is to entice Anderson to reconsider his self-imposed Davis Cup absence which has stretched to six years now. By admitting some TSA faults he is sending a positive message of reconciliation. I only joined TSA towards the end of last year so I have little in the way of first-hand experience of what has happened historically between Kevin and TSA Glover said. However after having spoken to Kevin his mother as well as several TSA stalwarts I have come to the conclusion that while our federation has supported Kevin more than most people realise on balance we have not supported him enough. In short both he and his family have made huge sacrifices to get him to where he is today. This is their triumph not ours. Indeed the reality is that Kevin has long since passed through our tennis structures and he doesn t need assistance from TSA any more but we need him. That last point is valid because with Anderson s recent success at Flushing Meadows having raised the sport s profile TSA could use the new world No 15 to help grow the sport. It is something Anderson said he wanted to do during his run to the final. I ve had a lot of support from back home and my biggest hope is that I m able to inspire some kids to play tennis Anderson said. It s tough coming from South Africa where we are so far from the scene so it makes me feel good that I can fly the flag and show them that if you work hard you can get here. Glover admitted he was using Anderson s sometimes fraught relationship with TSA to make sure the same mistakes are not repeated as they try to capitalise on the renewed interest in the sport. TSA is learning from the past to ensure that the next generation of Kevin Andersons (and their female equivalents) are provided the necessary support structures to get into the game grow in the game and stay in the game for life. TSA has a new eight-year plan to grow our sport in South Africa and while we are in the early stages of executing this plan there is a lot of positive energy and signs of progress. To be honest TSA would be better prepared to leverage on Kevin s performances in 12 months time rather than now but we are not complaining. Kevin s success at the US Open could prove to be rocket fuel for our sport . Thank you Kevin. Thank you for all you are doing for tennis in South Africa. Related