Springbok coach, Allister Coetzee Picture: Siphiwe Sibeko / Reuters When it comes to the Springboks, it is amazing the difference a year makes. Allister Coetzee s charges had to drag themselves to Christchurch to man up to the All Blacks last year and the end result was a 41-13 hammering. That was just the start as the All Blacks dished out a 57-15 hiding in Durban a few weeks later. Now on the back of a six-match unbeaten streak, the Springboks have every reason to be confident ahead of tomorrow s Rugby Championship date against the All Blacks in Albany. There is the massive weight of expectation and history lingering like a foul smell over the Boks. They have not won in New Zealand in eight years and an All Black side shorn of its first choice front-row and with eight changes from its last encounter is still a formidable entity. Coetzee wanted to be quietly confident about his team s chances but there is a feeling the All Blacks may be saving their best for their ultimate foes. Coetzee also said he had finally adapted to the challenge of coaching at international level. It s great to hear from Steve Hansen and the guys there that they recognise we re a happy team and the fact they have selected their strongest side. That s all good but it comes down to the 80 minutes on Saturday. There s always been respect between the sides but we are well prepared and we re in for a hell of a test match, Coetzee said. It s been bloody challenging coaching at international level, especially in rugby-mad countries with the supporters that we have. I suppose it s the same all over. Being the South African to manage the moods of millions all over is not an easy job, but it comes with the job. I m happy our players are in good conditioning shape because our big thing was the ability to contest at this level is determined by our Super Rugby conditioning and those who compete in the playoffs. All Black coach Hansen has had to deal with criticism even though the All Blacks have only lost one game this season. There is a growing sense of pessimism about the All Blacks veneer of invincibility against their southern hemisphere neighbours finally being stripped. After galloping to a one-sided and rather flattering 54-34 clouting of Australia on August 19 in Sydney, they had to fight tooth and nail the following week to keep their 16-year unbeaten streak against Australia at home in a tight 35-29 win in Dunedin. They also had to rely on their superior composure and conditioning to see off a determined Argentine side 39-22 in New Plymouth last week after the Pumas took a 22-15 lead after 50 minutes. Hansen said he understood the angst regarding the team s stuttering performances, while also raising eyebrows with the selection of Chiefs loosehead prop Kane Hames ahead of the experienced Crusader Wyatt Crockett. The All Blacks have lost a wealth of front row experience with the injury enforced absences of Owen Franks and Joe Moody. What we got in the drawn British and Irish Lions series was a whole lot of different things this young group has to learn. We ve got a young skipper even though he s played 100 tests. He s being challenged, the leadership group is being challenged and so are the youngsters. With the injuries we ve had, we ve had what I can call an awkward season. We ve lost one, drawn one but in other games we ve got out of tight spots and played some good rugby, Hansen said. It tests to lose a lot of experience but I have faith in the systems. Whilst some of these guys are very new, they re surrounded by guys who ve been around for a long time. The culture of the team is good and strong and everyone is working together. Through the opportunities that have availed themselves through injuries we ll be growing some depth. The teams are: New Zealand: 15 Damian McKenzie, 14 Nehe Milner- Skudder, 13 Ryan Crotty, 12 Sonny Bill Williams, 11 Rieko Ioane, 10 Beauden Barrett, 9 Aaron Smith; 8 Kieran Read (c), 7 Sam Cane, 6 Liam Squire, 5 Sam Whitelock, 4 Brodie Retallick, 3 Nepo Laulala, 2 Dane Coles, 1 Kane Hames. Reserves: 16 Codie Taylor, 17 Wyatt Crockett, 18 Ofa Tu ungafasi, 19 Scott Barrett, 20 Ardie Savea, 21 TJ Perenara, 22 Lima Sopoaga, 23 Anton Lienert-Brown. South Africa: 15 Andries Coetzee, 14 Raymond Rhule, 13 Jesse Kriel, 12 Jan Serfontein, 11 Courtnall Skosan, 10 Elton Jantjies, 9 Ross Cronje, 8 Uzair Cassiem, 7 Jean-luc du Preez, 6 Siya Kolisi, 5 Franco Mostert, 4 Eben Etzebeth, 3 Ruan Dreyer, 2 Malcolm Marx, 1 Tendai Mtawarira. Reserves: 16 Bongi Mbonambi, 17 Steven Kitshoff, 18 Trevor Nyakane, 19 Lood de Jager, 20 Pieter-Steph du Toit 21 Francois Hougaard, 22 Handre Pollard, 23 Damian de Allende. Referee: Nigel Owens (Wales) First Assistant: Angus Gardner (Australia) Second Assistant: Matthew Carley (England) TMO: George Ayoub (Australia) Related