Barrage of damning allegations Taking a firm stance, two respondents, which collectively total 131, have listed a barrage of damning allegations against ousted UDM Nelson Mandela Bay deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani in their high court answering affidavits. The affidavits are being lodged to counter Bobani s urgent application for an interim interdict to overturn his ouster and towards his reinstatement and is expected to be heard in the high court in Port Elizabeth on September 19. Bobani is also seeking permanent reinstatement. His application for an urgent interim interdict is directed at preventing the election of a new deputy mayor in the interim. Bobani has retained his councillor role at the municipality. He was controversially ousted in a Nelson Mandela Bay City council vote of no confidence on August 24 this year, just more than a year after the UDM entered into a governing coalition agreement with the DA. The motion for a vote of no confidence in the then deputy mayor Bobani was further controversially tabled by Patriotic Alliance councillor Marlon Daniels. He and his political party are now central components of the dispute. The UDM, headed nationally by Bantu Holomisa, is listed as the first of the two applicants in the interdict and reinstatement bid. To date the first, second, third and fourth respondents which have been named as the municipality, the speaker of the municipal council, Jonathan Lawack, municipal manager Johan Mettler and mayor Athol Trollip, have all given notice of their intention to oppose Bobani s application. The ninth respondent, James Selfe, who is the chairman of the DA s federal executive is also to file an answering affidavit. Disputing the urgency of Bobani s application, and therefore the interim relief sought by Bobani, Selfe alleged that Bobani s application was founded on the misrepresentation of facts which he alleged pertained to three distinct issues. Selfe listed them as: The DA s relationship and dealings with Patriotic Alliance (PA) and the PA s councillor Marlon Daniels. The reasons for the council s decision to remove Bobani from the office of the deputy mayor; and The efforts by the DA to engage with UDM national leadership (in particular, Bantu Holomisa) and about Bobani s unacceptable conduct as deputy executive mayor, which efforts were to no avail. Further asserting that there would be serious prejudice to the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality which he alleged would be reason alone for the court not to grant the relief sought by Bobani, Selfe went on to describe a 18-point barrage of allegations against Bobani. The allegations ranged from tardiness, willful obstruction of municipal services, meetings and agreements to the leaking of confidential documents, collusion with an opposition party and financial mismanagement and irregularities. Related