Sibusiso Sithole during a Southern Kings training session Picture: Gallo Images/Michael Sheehan The rebuilt Southern Kings will not run out of gas against the Scarlets when they make their Pro14 debut in Llanelli tomorrow despite their lack of preseason preparation. That was the assessment of head coach Deon Davids as he contemplated taking on the champions in their own backyard. Even though the hastily assembled Kings have not played a warm-up game, Davids is confident his men will have the stamina for the clash at the 15 000-seater Parc y Scarlets arena. Some of the guys have been playing a lot of rugby with the other teams they come from, Davids said. If you look at this group, there are some who were part of the Kings Super Rugby group and they have had a rest and recovery period. One or two guys are almost there with work to do. We will start here and work from here and look where each individual can improve and progress, Davids said. The Scarlets have played three warm-up matches, losing their final one 40-21 to English Premier Division team Gloucester, who are now being coached by South African Johan Ackermann. Davids said he did not take too much notice of how teams performed in friendlies. When the league begins, you will see a different animal. It would be stupid to underestimate a team that are the champions of this competition. They will bring a different attitude and approach and they will have time to better prepare for this game. We need to be spot-on and focused. We have some exciting players in the backline and we also have some talent in the forwards. I would like to see a good balance between the backs and forwards. New Kings captain Michael Willemse said he felt honoured to be leading the team in their first Pro14 match. I m lucky enough to have guys with a lot of experience and great leadership abilities around me who I can turn to if need be. I look very forward to the opportunity, Willemse said There s a serious amount of excitement coming from camp. The guys have put in a lot of hard work and bought into some proper sessions to make sure we ve ticked all the boxes. We feel ready. Well, I can certainly say that we re going to go out there and give it our best shot. We re excited to be here and to be able to compete but we want to perform. We ve done our homework and preparation and hopefully that shows when we run out onto the pitch. The guys understand the great opportunity at hand and it s driving us on. With that being said, there s a real sense of desire and determination to do something special, Willemse said. South Africa s participation in the Pro14 starts tonight when the Cheetahs take on Ulster in Belfast. Kings team: Schalk Ferreira, Michael Willemse (capt), Rossouw de Klerk, Jurie van Vuuren, Dries van Schalkwyk, Khaya Majola, Victor Sekekete, Andisa Ntsila, Rudi van Rooyen, Kurt Coleman, Sibusiso Sithole, Luzuko Vulindlu, Berton Klaasen, Yaw Penxe, Masixole Banda. Replacements: Stephan Coetzee, Luvuyo Pupuma, Entienne Swanepoel, Bobby de Wee, Siyabulela Mdaka, Godlen Masimla, Ntabeni Dukisa, Jacques Nel. The match will be shown live on SS1 at 6.30pm.