The Thandi ferry Picture: Supplied A Robben Island ferry normally used to transport staff was at the centre of a dramatic rescue operation off Cape Town on Friday afternoon. When contacted NSRI spokesman Craig Lambinon said: I can t speak there is a rescue going on. The fire department was alerted at 2.42pm. A staff member at Nonkululeko Charters the owners of the Thandi confirmed that there is an emergency involving the boat . However she could not provide details. George Jabour from Brazil says the waves were alarming before he was rescued from the sinking #RobbenIsland ferry. @AJGMolyneaux pic.twitter.com/IjmewCCS0e &mdash; Times LIVE (@TimesLIVE) September 15, 2017 TimesLIVE understands that the National Sea Rescue Institute was transferring passengers from the stricken craft and port control asked all vessels to keep clear of the ferry. A pilot boat wanted to take the Thandi under tow but no tow line was aboard. Jacques Ellis the skipper of luxury charter yacht Only One said he was sailing to the Thandi s rescue and believed there may be 60-plus people on board. But we will only know what s going on once we re there he said. Thandi is part of a fleet of six tourist boats owned by Esa Yacoob which started with a small harbour cruise boat Sea Shuttle 1 in 1994. Yacoob did not answer his phone on Friday afternoon but his website says: The company employs over 40 people from skippers deckhands service providers marketing and admin staff. Over a process of seven years the fleet grew. Sea Shuttle 1 was renamed Tommy the Tugboat and is permanently of service outside the Two Oceans Aquarium giving educational and entertaining harbour tours for young and old. Ameera a 40ft catamaran (37 passengers) is the green ambassador of the fleet and the all-time favourite party boat the Jolly Roger Pirate Boat (75 passengers) joined the fleet in 2008. In November 2012 Africa&#8217;s first cigarette boat Adrenalin was launched. A tourist from the US was aboard to Madiba 1 which rescued passengers on the Thandi. @TimesLIVE Video: @AJGMolyneaux pic.twitter.com/zn6olA5PdW &mdash; Nashira Davids (@nashhannibal) September 15, 2017 Designed and built from scratch by Yacoob Adrenalin is the company s stealth bomber for those who are in the need for speed. Powering up to 70km/h (33 knots) she will certainly get the endorphins flowing as she flies like a Harley-Davison across the Atlantic Ocean. The fleet is built to confirm to international safety standards and is operational 365 days of the year. The company has an excellent track record in the tourism industry as well as with the South African Maritime Safety Association for the last 18 years. The vessels have been used in many international Bollywood and Hollywood films and European ad campaigns. Individual vessels can be used for private charters photographic and film locations. Offering a unique blend of boats to suit all tastes and need authentic and unforgettable experiences are on offer off Cape Town&#8217;s unique and breath-taking coastline. Related