Philisiwe Buthelezi &#8211; CEO National Empowerment Fund Picture: Russell Roberts The empowerment financing target of R122-billion under the financial sector charter is too low and should be increased by an additional R245-billion National Empowerment Fund (NEF) chief executive Philisiwe Mthethwa has proposed. She said the R122-billion figure was too low for a sector that had assets estimated at R4.8-trillion at the end of September last year. Just taking the 17 financial service companies listed on the Johannesburg Securities Exchange there was a 4% shortfall between the R65.2-billion broad based black economic empowerment deals that they have concluded and the 10% ownership target set out in the financial sector charter. These companies have a total market capitalisation of about R1.6-trillion. A study of these 17 companies established that they had only achieved an average of 6% direct black ownership. Since the 10% financial sector ownership target is below the 25% ownership target in terms of the codes the companies will have to spend an additional R244.6-billion in empowerment finance to make up for the 15% gap Mthethwa said in the NEF annual report. She suggested that the R244.6-billion be invested in the economy with a 61% and 39% split between targeted investments and the black industrialist programme. This would mean the targets for both categories increasing twofold by R149-billion and R95-billion respectively. Mthethwa noted that the R122-billion target for empowerment financing in the financial sector charter was based on a 2002 baseline and had not been reviewed or adjusted for inflation or population and economic growth. The NEF s Strategic Projects Fund which provides venture capital to black entrepreneurs has a project pipeline of 27 industrial-scale projects that require about R28.5-billion in funding inclusive of R4-billion for NEF equity stakes. The NEF is calling for increased partnership between the development finance institutions to provide project development funding to black industrialists and entrepreneurs Mthethwa said. She also believed there was an urgent need to establish a black bank 49% owned by the government which the NEF calculated would required an initial capital of R306-million. Of this R150-million would come from the government and R156-million from black members of the public. Related