The Springboks are aware that wins in New Zealand are once-in-a-lifetime occasions. Only two Bok coaches in recent times Nick Mallet and Peter de Villiers know how it feels to coach a Bok side that wins in New Zealand. Even then, there was a 10-year gap between the wins, though De Villiers collected victories in consecutive years. That tells you everything you need to know about the task that awaits the Springboks this morning when they face the All Blacks in their Rugby Championship clash at the North Harbour Stadium in Albany. It is a challenge the Boks have to embrace if they are to entertain any hopes of ending their eight-year drought. They needed teams packed with World Cup winners to achieve wins in Wellington (1998), Dunedin (2008) and Hamilton a year later. The Boks don t have World Cup winners in their ranks and that s not a bad thing. There s no past baggage to deal with and they only have two survivors from their last encounter against the All Blacks, which is one they would like to remain hidden in history. Captain Eben Etzebeth and Tendai Beast Mtawarira had to watch on helplessly as the All Blacks tore them limb from limb during last year s 57-15 massacre at King s Park. Etzebeth alluded to the game as one of their turning points, even though they still endured further nightmares. Having not lost a game this year, Etzebeth said they were in a better frame of mind even though the All Blacks were still a dangerous team. We ll be looking to win but we know it s a big rivalry against the All Blacks. I do think the guys will be ready and we ll be looking forward to the game. We have to be at our best to make sure we do well, Etzebeth said. It took us a couple of months to recover from that loss and it really hurt. It wasn t about the defeat against the All Blacks, it was about the whole year but we ve put that behind us and we were looking forward to this year and this year has gone well. The game is going to be our biggest challenge of the year. There s nothing wrong in having a bit of confidence, especially with how the Boks have been faring this year. The stability the Boks have maintained has been crucial for them in a time when the wheels could have come off in a bad way. The Boks had a headache to deal with yesterday the withdrawal of Ross Cronje from the match-day 23 due to a stomach bug. Francois Hougaard will get another start, while Rudy Paige moves to the bench. The All Blacks unbeaten home record against the Boks doesn t worry Etzebeth. Once you jog onto the field, whatever records you may have had disappear from your head. You re not looking to break records. You want to win the test match. I know they want to win the test match and so do we. Records don t count for much, Etzebeth said. New Zealand: 15 Damian McKenzie, 14 Nehe Milner-Skudder, 13 Ryan Crotty, 12 Sonny Bill Williams, 11 Rieko Ioane, 10 Beauden Barrett, 9 Aaron Smith; 8 Kieran Read (c), 7 Sam Cane, 6 Liam Squire, 5 Sam Whitelock, 4 Brodie Retallick, 3 Nepo Laulala, 2 Dane Coles, 1 Kane Hames. Reserves: 16 Codie Taylor, 17 Wyatt Crockett, 18 Ofa Tu ungafasi, 19 Scott Barrett, 20 Ardie Savea, 21 TJ Perenara, 22 Lima Sopoaga, 23 Anton Lienert-Brown. South Africa: 15 Andries Coetzee, 14 Raymond Rhule, 13 Jesse Kriel, 12 Jan Serfontein, 11 Courtnall Skosan, 10 Elton Jantjies, 9 Francois Hougaard, 8 Uzair Cassiem, 7 Jean-luc du Preez, 6 Siya Kolisi, 5 Franco Mostert, 4 Eben Etzebeth , 3 Ruan Dreyer, 2 Malcolm Marx, 1 Tendai Mtawarira Reserves: 16 Bongi Mbonambi, 17 Steven Kitshoff, 18 Trevor Nyakane, 19 Lood de Jager, 20 Pieter-Steph du Toit 21 Rudy Paige, 22 Handre Pollard, 23 Damian de Allende. Match official: Nigel Owens (Wales) Related