Villa Tuscana has new Swedish owners and is now also part of Mantis s prestigious portfolio Picture: Salvelio Meyer Bold new chapter begins for Summerstrand boutique hotel, writes Louise Liebenberg The Iconic Villa Tuscana in Summerstrand has had a multimillion-rand makeover, shedding its once imposing and somewhat in-your-face look in favour of a more understated, elegant European approach which at the same time also honours its South African coastal location. The boutique hotel s masterful transformation is the result of new foreign ownership along with a partnership with The Mantis Collection, which will be managing Villa Tuscana as part of an impressive collection of high-end establishments around the globe. Established by past owners Thys and Virginia van der Merwe, and Aubrey Sacks, some 15 years ago, Villa Tuscana was acquired last year by Swedish businessman Kenneth W hlberg, who fell in love with the Bay while on holiday in South Africa with his wife, Gunilla, five years ago. The 12 spacious rooms have all been tastefully decorated Picture: Salvelio Meyer The new-look Erasmus Drive property was unveiled to media and other guests, travel industry staff, contractors and service providers at a swish cocktail function this week. Mantis, headed by the Bay s Adrian Gardiner, was involved in every step of the redesign to ensure the hotel would have everything the discerning traveller expects from fluffy bathrobes and slippers to a well-stocked mini bar and Wi-Fi that actually works! Much of the original external floor plan has not been touched but it is once you step into the lobby with its grand wrought-iron staircase that you begin to notice big changes. The Summerstrand property has a distinctly European style Picture: Salvelio Meyer Several internal walls were removed so some of the 10 suites (two of them tailored for families, with connecting rooms) could be made more spacious. Most of the bathrooms were completely redone, and a state-of-the-art pro kitchen has been fitted. But it is in the stylish decor and furnishings that the transformation is most evident, largely thanks to the keen eye of Maurette van Eyssen of Mi Designs, a long-time Mantis collaborator. Following Tuesday s cocktail launch my husband and I were part of a media contingent invited to spend the night. We found our suite spacious, comfy and well appointed, and the staff friendly and attentive. Villa Tuscana&#8217;s Kenneth and Gunilla Wahlberg, left, with the Mantis Collection&#8217;s Adrian Gardiner and his wife Shirleyanne Gardiner, right Picture: Stirling Olivier Breakfast, too, was nicely handled and I adored the beautiful green crockery hand-made by local ceramicist Meshack Masuku. The restaurant is also open for lunch and dinner, and there s a relaxing pool area where guests can let their hair down. Kenneth s vision for Villa Tuscana is to offer both locals and visitors to the Bay luxurious comfort, exclusive social spaces, efficient business services and unfussy dishes to satisfy every palate. Perhaps best of all is that profits won t simply be channeled back to Europe: he is heavily involved in Renstr mmen, a historic church- owned hotel complex in his home city of Norrk ping in Sweden, which in turn has a close relationship with Ebenezer International, a community-based church in Port Elizabeth. Revenue from Villa Tuscana would help support community upliftment initiatives in the Bay, Ebenezer s Lionel Billings said at the launch. Villa Tuscana is at 84 Erasmus Drive. Contact general manager Tanya van Vuuren on (041) 583-3550 or e-mail: Tanya.vanvuuren@mantiscollection.com Related