Autosport staff members, from left, Dillan Kayser, Ettienne Elbrug, Mark Muller and Faiyaaz Mohamed Picture: Brian Witbooi A passion for cars and a gap in the market saw the owner of Autosport establishing his dream The ever-growing market for the next best or unique set of wheels, drove Himesh Parbhoo to open his own car accessory shop in North End more than a decade ago. Since opening the original branch of Autosport in 2004, Parbhoo has established himself as one of the major car accessory dealers in the province, having opened two additional branches in Cleary Park and Humansdorp, as well as an Auto Electrician branch in North End. Parbhoo said he hoped to expand the Autosport footprint nationally in the not- too-distant future. What is your core service? Autosport is a car accessories store. We stock and fit car audios, mag wheels, tyres and all sorts of addons, like body kits and interior and exterior accessories. We also have an auto electrical workshop. What made you venture into this type of industry? Cars have always been a passion of mine, so it was almost a natural inclination to open a business in the automotive industry. I saw a gap in the market and I took it. When did you see the opportunity to start the business? In 2003 I realised there was no big car accessories store in the Nelson Mandela Bay area I couldn t really find anything for my own cars. In March 2004, we opened our first store. The aim was to cater to everyone s needs. What makes your business unique? Having a wide range of products in stock. Autosport staff always go the extra mile for our customers. We offer in-store expertise through our knowledgeable staff on products and services, as well as superior customer service. If someone wanted to copy your business model, how would they start? To start any business you need drive and passion for that particular industry or product. Do it because you enjoy it and success is more likely to follow. What are some of the biggest challenges in running the day-to-day side of the business? None really because I have an excellent team who have a wide knowledge of all things automotive, and they are ready to take on any challenge. What are some of the best practices that have made your business a success? Our business is successful because we pride ourselves in our customer service. We always strive to better our service to customers and provide better products with higher quality and improved pricing, which has allowed the business to succeed. What kind of advertising do you do? Most of the advertising is done through our Facebook page where we post new products and promotions. We advertise in local papers and have flyers distributed at intersections and malls. Also, the power of word-of-mouth advertising is also a very useful tool. What is your company s vision? Our vision is to be the biggest car accessories store in South Africa. We would like Autosport to grow bigger and better and eventually we aim to have branches throughout the country. What are some of the highlights in running your business? Meeting new people and building a relationship with our clients is one of the highlights, especially considering we share a love of cars with most of the people who come into the store. We have clients who have supported us since we opened our doors in 2004, and you grow good relationships with those people which is maintained throughout the years. We are eternally grateful for all the support. Do you have plans to expand your business and how would you do this? We would like to branch out to other provinces in South Africa, with a branch in every major city, and compete with or even exceed the biggest car modification dealers in the country. How did you get funding for your business? Funding to start Autosport came from another business I used to own. Once you got funding, what was your first step in actually setting about to launch your business? Once I had funding I had to find the right products and the right location. Customers need to be able to easily access your business and once there, they need to be able to find what they are looking for. And within the automotive modification industry, those products are constantly being altered, improved or changed, so we have to stay up to date to cater for customer needs. Related