Diamond Thopola during a Chippa United training session yesterday Picture: Gallo Images Skipper Diamond Thopola said Chippa United would be banking on home ground advantage when they host Baroka FC in a Premier Soccer League fixture at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Tuesday (7.30pm). The Chilli Boys return to the grind after a twoweek international break. The Port Elizabeth side went on recess with a three-point cushion, after beating Amazulu 2-0 in their first home match of the season. The win made up for their 1-0 loss to Orlando Pirates in their league opener. Chippa will be to hoping to continue with their winning ways at home when they host Bakgaga at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium. Coach Dan Malesela s troops have an unbeaten record in league matches against Baroka, having beaten them both home and away last season. They will be looking to maintain that status. We are playing at home, so we cannot afford any mistakes, Thopola said. As much as it is not easy playing away, we have to make sure that we win our home games to make life easier for us. Also, we want to make our home ground a slaughterhouse. When teams come here, they must know they are coming for a tough battle. We have had a very good two-week break. The guys have been working very hard at training, they have been pushing themselves. We don t have any injuries, so everybody will be available for selection. The Bafana Bafana defender said they were aware that the game would not be an easy one, as the Limpopo side are a hard running team. However, they have prepared well physically and mentally for them. Both teams were fighting for survival last season, so they had to make sure they strengthen their squads. But we don t have to worry about them. We have to worry about ourselves and make sure we get the business done. Baroka will be out to clinch their first league victory this season after playing two consecutive draws against Polokwane City and Orlando Pirates. Meanwhile, well-travelled Ernst Middendorp and Roger de Sa have emerged as the main frontrunners in the race to replace Peter Butler at Platinum Stars. An insider told TimesLIVE yesterday that the Stars board met with the beleaguered Butler in Rustenburg on Wednesday night, and club officials are expected to make an official announcement by the weekend. The board has decided to act swiftly before things get worse because the players are not responding to him, the source said. Former Orlando Pirates coach Ruud Krol has also been linked to the job, but his high salary demands could scuttle his chances at the cash-strapped Dikwena. Additional reporting by Mahlatse Mphahlele Related