Brace yourself. For the next three months your local church, depending on who leads it, may at times welcome some prominent visitors dressed in black, green and gold. As we edge closer to December, the ANC s leadership race will play itself out in church pews as it does in its branches. We ve seen this many times before. The practice goes back some 105 years. Only this time, the stakes are much higher. The party faces its toughest leadership battle in decades. Despite what its leaders profess in public, they too know that they have lost moral credibility in the eyes of many ordinary South Africans. And so to claw back, they do what South African politicians do go to church hoping for divine intervention to curry favour with the masses. In that process, they will sing and dance as clergymen stretch out their hands towards them in prayer. Caught up in the moment, they will say the most bizarre things which, in fact, expose their abhorrence for moral and accountable leadership. Statements like what President Jacob Zuma told congregants in Port Elizabeth last week: The Bible says when leaders go astray, pray for them. It doesn t say discard them and hate them that is the Bible I know. With no sense of irony, they will kneel at the altar and ask the church to pray for them to do the right thing. Pray for us to make the right choice in December, secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said in Cape Town on Sunday. In that conference we are faced [with] life and death. Pray for life, Mantashe tweeted. But as you and I know, it s all smoke and mirrors. The reality is that the ANC is firmly on a self-destructive path. Although some in its ranks may believe in the principle of servant leadership, the truth is that those who hold considerable power are deeply consumed by a conflict that has nothing to do with us as citizens. This year, probably more than any other in recent times, we have come to witness the depth of the political (read financial) warfare currently ranging in our country. Although it can be traced back to the party, it is not limited to it. From the killing fields of KwaZulu-Natal to the shiny boardrooms of corporate South Africa, we have witnessed the intricate web of lies, looting and violence which darkens our socio-political landscape. On Saturday it emerged stronger than ever that, like many before him, former ANCYL secretary-general Sindiso Magaqa may have been killed for asking questions about corruption in the municipality in which he worked. Magaqa was the latest victim in a string of assassinations which Police Minister Fikile Mbalula believes involve corruption and the abuse of state resources. On the same day, it also emerged that, closer to home in Fort Beaufort, at least 16 municipal councillors are living in fear, and some had fled their homes, because of threats to their lives. In fact, one councillor had petrol poured around her home, in a not-so-veiled warning of what might come next. All of them have reason to fear. In June, their council speaker Thozama Njobe received death threats. A month later, she was shot dead while in a car with a colleague. At the centre of it all is greed. The same kind of greed that has all but killed the credibility of one of South Africa s big four auditing firms. Last week, KPMG buckled under public pressure after being exposed for having been complicit in a politically engineered grand scheme to loot public money through various means. The damage caused by them to our nation, its people and our economy is enormous. They are not the only ones. US consultancy firm McKinsey, UK PR firm Bell Pottinger, and German software giant SAP have all come out stinking for their role in propping up and legitimising the rogue Gupta empire. No doubt more companies will follow. Even more tragic, more deaths are likely to follow. Such are the precarious times we live in. So here s the thing, whoever the ANC chooses to lead it in December will not end the warfare, even if they wanted to. The truth is that the ANC is no longer in the business of building a nation. It is too far gone. Only an active citizenry can protect our democracy. Related