Venus Williams, of the US, returns the ball to Czech Republic s Petra Kvitova during their US Open women s singles quarterfinal match Picture: AFP Williams becomes oldest Open semifinalist in history Seven-time grand slam champion Venus Williams became the oldest semifinalist in US Open history at the age of 37 on Tuesday by beating two-time Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova 6-3 3-6 7-6 (7/2). US ninth seed Williams, seeking her third US Open crown, advanced to a match-up today against 83rd-ranked compatriot Sloane Stephens for a spot in Saturday s final. I m so fortunate to have won that match. It came down to the wire, Williams said. I try to tell myself to enjoy the competition, enjoy the battle, and I think I was able to do that. In the men s event, South Africa s Kevin Anderson reached a grand slam semifinal for the first time and will face Spain s Pablo Carreno Busta, who will also be appearing in his maiden last-four at a major. Stephens, who missed 11 months with a left foot injury before returning at Wimbledon, matched her best grand slam showing by outlasting Latvian 16th seed Anastasija Sevastova 6-3 3-6 7-6 (7/4). This is just Stephens said. When I started my comeback at Wimbledon, I could never have dreamt of coming back incredible, and having these results. It s indescribable. Stephens has won 13 of her past 15 matches and matched her 2013 Australian Open semifinal run for best slam effort. Williams, who improved to 2-4 all-time against the Czech 13th seed, will return to the world top five for the first time since January 2011, a span that saw her diagnosed with the energy-sapping disease, Sjogren s Syndrome. Williams, the oldest slam semifinalist since Martina Navratilova at Wimbledon in 1994, won the 2000 and 2001 US crowns. She was runner-up this year at Wimbledon and the Australian Open and could reach three slam finals in a year for the first time since 2002. Kvitova battled back from a five-month absence after a knife-wielding home intruder injured her t hand in December. I m glad I m still able to compete on the high level against the top players which I hope will give me some confidence to continue to play well, to know that it s still there somewhere, Kvitova said. Wins by legends Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal in their quarterfinals would set up their first US Open meeting in an epic men s semifinal tomorrow. Anderson, the 28th seed, downed 17th-seeded American Sam Querrey 7-6 (7/5) 6-7 (9/11) 6-3 7-6 (9/7) to book a berth in the semifinals. Anderson, the first South African in any slam semifinal since Wayne Ferreira at the 2003 Australian Open, will meet Spanish 12th seed Carreno Busta, who has not dropped a set, for a place in Sunday s final. Carreno Busta, the first player in any grand slam to face four qualifiers, cruised into his first slam semifinal by ousting Argentine 29th seed Diego Schartzman 6-4 6-4 6-2. Incredible, Carreno Busta said. It s something that I always dreamt about, but something I never thought was going to arrive here. With Anderson 2.02m tall and Querrey at 1.97m, it was the tallest match-up ever so late in any slam. Sevastova, who matched her best major run from last year at New York by ousting Maria Sharapova to reach the last eight, led 3-1 in the third set before Stephens rallied. I just told myself to keep fighting and stay consistent, Stephens said. I knew if I just stuck with it and stayed in every point I d have my opportunity, and I did. In the tie-breaker, Stephens took four of the last five points, three on Sevastova errors, before hitting a down-the-line backhand winner ensured her win to reach the top 35 in next week s rankings. Sevastova admitted nerves had got to her in the tie-breaker, saying: It s normal. You play for semifinals of the US Open. I m not a robot. Sorry. AFP Related