Recipe: LCHF blondies September 6 is Eat an extra dessert day (who knew?) but you can do it guilt-free with this delicious recipe for low-carb, high-fat, diabetic-friendly blondies. This recipe is from Katrien s Gifts From the Kitchen, the latest cookery book by Katrien van Zyl. Katrien knew from the age of 12 that she wanted to bake for a living The self-proclaimed chocoholic combines these two loves when baking commissioned wedding and party cakes. After the success of her first two books, Katrien s Cakes and Katrien s Mini Cakes, she was inundated with requests for courses and started teaching cake decorating. Her new book features a scrumptious collected of tried and trusted recipes for gifts from your kitchen cakes, cookies, tarts and snacks and well as several low-carb, high-fat recipes for people on special diets such as Banting, paleo, keto, gluten-free or sugar-free. In Katrien s Gifts From the Kitchen, she gives step-by-step instructions with photographs to illustrate each project. She suggests these nutty delicacies to treat someone following a low-carb lifestyle, and says they are Banting-friendly, keto-friendly, diabetic-friendly and even gluten free. LCHF Blondies Ingredients 125g (1/4 cup) xylitol or erythritol granules 4 large eggs 250ml (1 cup) almond, cashew or macadamia nut butter 5m (1 tsp) vanilla essence 40g (1/2 cup) dessicated coconut 2.5ml (1/2 tsp) salt 25g (1/4 cup) flaked almonds or chopped nuts xylitol icing (confectioner s) sugar (optional) Method Preheat the oven to 180 C for a conventional oven, or 160 C for a fan-assisted oven. Line a 20cm square tin with non-stick baking paper and spray with non-stick cooking spray. Whisk the xylitol or erythritol and eggs with a standing mixer or handheld electric beater at a high speed for 3-5 minutes or until the eggs are light and fluffy. Place the nut butter and vanilla essence into a bowl and stir to loosen and soften it. Slowly whisky the nut mixture into the egg mixture at a low speed, add the salt, then whisk in the coconut. Pour this blondie batter into the tin and sprinkle with flaked almonds or chopped nuts. Bake for 25-30 minutes or until a cake skewer comes out clean. Cook the cake in the tin. Once cool, lift out of the tin by holding on to the baking paper. Cut the blondies into even squares, dust with icing sugar if using, and package. Tip: these blondies will keep for up to one week in an airtight container in the fridge, says Katrien. They can also be frozen for up to three months. Related