Southern Kings head coach Deon Davids Picture: Supplied Defiant head coach Deon Davids has vowed that his revamped Southern Kings will not take a backward step against Pro14 champions Scarlets in Llanelli tonight. It is the toughest start imaginable for a new-look Kings squad who are hoping to hit the ground running against a star-studded Scarlets outfit. Without the luxury of a warm-up match to fine-tune combinations, the hastily assembled Kings face a stern early examination of their Pro14 credentials. There is enough talent in this Kings team, Davids said. It is a question of being patient and we must not be afraid to show from the start that we are not scared to be in the competition. The Kings need to be spot on and focused and be ready to face whatever comes to us. We must not be afraid to impose ourselves in terms of what we need to do We will have the attitude of us playing the way that we want to play and also try to be clever in terms of our approach. It is going to be an 80-minute battle, but we are in this now and we are excited to start and to see where we are. We will go into this game confident in terms of our abilities. We will see this as a good learning exercise and base from where we can start and continue our campaign forward. Scarlets are the champion side. They have strength all over in their team and they are a side who like to play with ball in hand. They are quite dangerous if you concede turnovers against them and they have a good set piece, Davids said. The Kings squad, which will be captained by hooker Michael Willemse, also includes two players with Pro14 experience loose-forward Dries van Schalkwyk (formerly with Zebre), and Rossouw de Klerk (formerly with Glasgow Warriors). Scottish international John Barclay will lead a strong Scarlets side that includes British and Irish Lions player Leigh Halfpenny. The Scarkets pack is led by an all-international front row in Rob Evans, Ryan Elias and Samson Lee. International lock Jake Ball is joined in the second row by Tadhg Beirne while Aaron Shingler and James Davies join Barclay in the back row. It s an exciting time. A new team and a new culture coming into our back yard is very exciting for everyone, Scarlets coach Wayne Pivac said. We don t know a lot about them, but it just means we focus on our performance and I think at this time of the year most teams are doing that anyway. There have been quite a few changes from the side that played in Super Rugby, but we ve watched some of their matches and we ve been quite impressed with how they play. The Kings play an attractive style of rugby that will suit this competition. Tonight s teams: Southern Kings (1 to 23) Schalk Ferreira, Michael Willemse (capt), Rossouw de Klerk, Jurie van Vuuren, Dries van Schalkwyk, Khaya Majola, Victor Sekekete, Andisa Ntsila, Rudi van Rooyen, Kurt Coleman, Sibusiso Sithole, Luzuko Vulindlu, Berton Klaasen, Yaw Penxe, Masixole Banda. Replacements: Stephan Coetzee, Luvuyo Pupuma, Entienne Swanepoel, Bobby de Wee, Siyabulela Mdaka, Godlen Masimla, Ntabeni Dukisa, Jacques Nel. Scarlets: 15 Leigh Halfpenny, 14 Johnny Mcnicholl, 13 Hadleigh Parkes, 12 Scott Williams, 11 Steff Evans, 10 Rhys Patchell, 9 Gareth Davies, 1 Rob Evans, 2 Ryan Elias, 3 Samson Lee, 4 Jake Ball, 5 Tadhg Beirne, 6 Aaron Shingler, 7 James Davies, 8 John Barclay (capt). Replacements: Emyr Phillips, Dylan Evans, Werner Kruger, David Bulbring, Will Boyde, Jonathan Evans, Rhys Jones, Paul Asquith Referee: Frank Murphy (Ireland). The match will be shown live on SS1 at 6.30pm.