Catalytic projects in Nelson Mandela Bay may be delayed after the municipality refused to sign a memorandum of agreement with the Housing Development Agency (HDA) yesterday until certain conditions were met. The signing of agreements is the next step towards the success of several mega-housing projects in the city. Catalytic projects are massive housing projects aimed at providing up to 21 000 houses in areas of existing and planned economic activity. The HDA is responsible for the implementation of the catalytic projects in the city, alongside another mega-project in the Buffalo City Metro. The metro has a massive housing backlog, with more than 80 000 people on its waiting list. Human settlements portfolio head Nqaba Bhanga vowed yesterday that the metro would not enter into agreements until the agency rectified project allocation levels for small medium and micro enterprises. Bhanga was responding to a presentation by the agency at a human settlements standing committee meeting. The five projects in Nelson Mandela Bay include the N2 Nodal Development, along with projects in Algoa Park, Kwanobuhle, Zanemvula and Jachtvlakte. The areas were submitted to the national Human Settlements Department and have been approved by the cabinet. Among the municipality s conditions is that the agency explains how Algoa Park has been submitted and approved among the list of proposed projects as it does not constitute a mega-project. We are not going to sign an agreement for a project without being convinced that it will help our people, Bhanga said. Nothing convinces me that there is a single big black-owned construction company in this city that will head up a project of this scale. Algoa Park is expected to provide houses to 1 500 families. Bhanga said the agency had failed to truly empower SMMEs. Giving an SMME 10-20 houses is not empowerment. You are playing around, Bhanga said. He said they would not sign the agreement until an incubator had been set up for SMMEs. Go to your principals and tell them we are not happy and this is putting the city at a disadvantage. Nelson Mandela Bay is not happy with Algoa and we will not sign anything, Bhanga said. He suggested the Algoa Park project be replaced with an integrated student housing project in the city centre. Nelson Mandela Bay official Schalk Potgieter said the municipality had called for both public and private proposals for the catalytic projects in 2015. Algoa Park was not submitted as a project meant for provincial land. We absolutely agree categorically with you [Bhanga], he said. As a project it [Algoa Park] makes sense, but as a catalytic project its offering is not enough with regard to numbers, Potgieter said. HDA representative Thabo Matiwane said he agreed the agency s empowerment model had to be rectified from 10% to an acceptable 30%. We will consider the issues raised here and we need to address our empowerment model. We do have challenges with material as we never break even, more than 70% of our budget goes to suppliers. Catalytic projects are bigscale projects, all deliberate in integrated human settlements, with the projects in Nelson Mandela Bay expected to upscale housing delivery, Matiwane said. Last month, Bhanga and mayor Athol Trollip appealed to Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu to release funds for catalytic projects in the city. It is unclear if the money has since been allocated. Councillors in the committee questioned how the agency would implement the projects differently and avoid shoddy workmanship. DA councillor Mxolisi Breakfast said: In terms of your scope of work, what support have you given other metros? We need to address the housing backlog. Related