The introduction of the broadbased black economic empowerment amended codes and scorecards four years ago signalled the decline of black ownership in the economy. In the early years of liberation, there was an understanding that white-owned businesses, big and small, must have black ownership to enjoy favourable consideration, both in the public and private sectors and I was one of the beneficiaries. But the 2013 amendments created loopholes for people to circumvent the government s strategy and its stated objective of promoting economic transformation in order to enable meaningful black participation in the economy . To date the outcome tends in the direct opposite: participation of black people in the economy has effectively fallen. For a start, the emphasis of the policymakers has been on the higher end of the economy, but it is also at the lower end where they blundered. If you accept that black people have been purposefully excluded in the economy, then how do you hope to develop them if you cannot protect them at this entry point? Smaller companies can simply ignore complying with black empowerment initiatives since they are classed as exempted micro enterprises (EME) automatically recognised as level four B-BBEE contributors with a procurement recognition level of 100%. Development could happen in a meaningful and sustainable way if protection was provided at a low entry point. Instead, non-enforcement of black ownership empowerment at this level puts the entire empowerment project at risk. Furthermore, the current system does not require much from medium-sized white-owned companies whose annual turnover is from R10-million to R50-million per annum (defined as qualifying small enterprises QSEs). Much of the cheating happens in this category. But it is in the larger companies where the impact is most profound. The so-called generic scorecard under the amended codes applies only to businesses with an annual turnover exceeding R50-million. These hinge on seven elements used for measuring good or bad compliance: Ownership; Management control; Employment equity; Skills development; Preferential procurement; Enterprise and supplier development; Socio-economic development. They sound praise-worthy, but the reality is very different: their impact is to encourage white-owned businesses to concoct all manner of tricks to secure their tight control of the economy, and effectively to prevent meaningful participation of previously excluded people. Part of the problem is that the authors of the scorecards did not apply themselves to the divergent nature of company size, industry and trading activity wholesale or retail, importing or exporting companies, high or low margins and so on. A law firm could have very low overheads compared to a hypermarket. A B-BBEE rating based on turnover is therefore inherently faulty. For many companies the task of applying this onerous formula is time-consuming and expensive, prompting wholesale cheating through creating meaningless empowerment schemes, with companies acting as agents of broad-based BEE companies that enjoy the highest levels of black empowerment rating without having empowered a single black entrepreneur. On the one hand, I know of 100% black-owned companies that cannot even get a level six BEE scorecard (the lowest level), simply because they cannot pay the exorbitant prices charged by the mainly white verification agents, mostly big firm lawyers, charted accountants and MBA graduates. On the other hand, I know of white entrepreneurs who are quick to brag that they have level two on the scorecard without parting with a single share. Instead, for example, they might choose the socio-economic category to donate a percentage of their artificially low profits to a charity while remaining 100% white-owned. It is perhaps not surprising that many small to medium enterprises have resorted to unethical activities, like where they want to grab 30% from every contract in a haphazard way. They feel the system has spewed them out, compounded by the fact that they cannot break into the well-fenced commercial activities. This brings me back to my point about providing protection for smaller black businesses. Imagine what the empowerment impact would have been if the motor sector in the Eastern Cape was investing in smaller black businesses that are directly involved in their supply chains. They would have a greater stake in ensuring positive results a far cry from the unscrupulous, and sadly all-too-common practice, of giving money away in CSI initiatives that achieve little in the way of transformation. Finally, a word about the black industrial schemes (BIS) through which 51% black ownership of companies with an annual turnover of more than R50-million is encouraged. From my experience, these all too often are more about smoke and mirrors than meaningful empowerment for black entrepreneurs. The power remains in white hands. Part of the problem relates to knowledge and experience. Having been in the cut-throat South Africa s commercial environment, I know how difficult it is to run an operation funded with this amount of money. For a person engaging in a business you have never participated in, and called upon to control a large factory, is a recipe for disaster. Whereas on the other hand, if someone could receive help to develop a business in supplying or producing goods or services of R100 000, this might assist him or her in handling those big figures with confidence later on in business life. My question is why did the government change the system that initially concentrated mainly at the lower end instead of at the upper levels of the economy? This is just but one area of weakness, but it illustrates my point that the changes made in 2013 were poorly thought-out, leaving an impression that the government had no clue how business works, and never consulted those who are in the know.