A braai in the rural Eastern Free State is the perfect get-together for friends Picture: ISTOCK As many South Africans stock up on charcoal, braai wood and boerewors in preparation for Heritage Month and braai day on September 24, here s a list of top braai spots around the country where you can fully appreciate the beauty of cooking in the great outdoors. THE EASTERN CAPE Port Elizabeth and East London are both fine coastal cities and there are quite a few seaside resorts which do permit braaing. The Willows in the Bay, a well-kept resort that boasts marvelous tidal pools, is one spot that has always been very popular with the locals. There are also smaller reserves around the same area where day visitors are welcome and you can make use of braai facilities close to the water s edge. Another popular resort about half an hour from Port Elizabeth is Van Stadens, which has built-in braais and picnic tables along the river, just before the mouth. Jack s Picnic Site in the Addo Elephant National Park is another tremendously popular destination, but best get there early to secure your spot and make a day of it. Much further up the coast, located about 250km south of Durban, Coffee Bay is arguably one of the most popular spots for visitors to the Wild Coast. Its famous wide, sandy beaches, warm water and lush green hills provide the perfect backdrop for a beach braai you ll never forget. The town itself is also home to an eclectic mix of quirky shops and vibey restaurants and bars, making it well worth a visit. THE WESTERN CAPE With so many magnificent mountain and ocean views, a braai in one of the Western Cape s many scenic braai spots is never disappointing. Both Buffels Bay and Bordjiesdrif in the Cape Point area make for a great braai outing, suggest Flight Centre who prepared today s list. In addition to great scenery, masses of rich flora abound in the area at this time of the year. Various antelope, ostriches, Cape Mountain Zebra and more than 250 species of birds can also be found in the reserve. Situated between the massive boulders on the sandy beaches of the Atlantic seaboard between Llandudno and Camp s Bay you will find about 40 picnic sites, all of which make for a perfect beach braai get-together with friends and family. NORTH WEST PROVINCE Home to some of the most scenic game parks in the country, this province is a natural choice when it comes to a bush braai. Whether it s getting a braai going after a day of game viewing, or hiking up and braaing on a hilltop, the options for a memorable bush braai experience are endless. Flight Centre offer good opportunities to visit the Pilanesburg National Park which has a number of picnic spots set high upon hills which all also have braai facilities. The Fish Eagle picnic spot which overlooks Mankwe dam is one of the most popular places to enjoy mother nature at its finest. KWAZULU-NATAL With its endless stretches of beaches, warm waves and tidal pools, a beach braai in this part of the world is a must. For a spontaneous long weekend break consult a travel guide to book a stay in KwaZulu-Natal. Situated just beyond the Breakers Hotel in Umhlanga is probably one of the locals best-kept secrets the Umhlanga Lagoon Nature Reserve. Here visitors get to experience the best of both worlds as they enjoy the magnificence of walking through the dune forest, before wading through the lagoon and onto the beach. The reserve is home to more than 208 species of birds and you can also enjoy a glimpse of blue and grey duiker, bushbuck and other smaller mammals. The area is also teeming with water birds such as herons, fish eagles and warblers. LIMPOPO AND MPUMALANGA Encompassing diverse terrain that comprises rugged, rocky mountains, spectacular water falls, wide bush plains and thick pine forests, the world is your oyster when it comes to tracking down a scenic braai spot in these two provinces. The famous Mac Mac Pools in Mpumalanga provide the perfect waterfall-side braai spot. There are plenty of picnic sites to choose from and the pools are located by a river which forms a series of amazing natural swimming areas. Bordering the city of Polokwane, the Polokwane Nature Reserve in Limpopo is another great place to enjoy the local wildlife while having a braai. It is home to zebra and various antelope species, and you can embark on a guided hiking trail before tucking into your boerie and sosaties. With so many amazing braai spots dotted around South Africa, it will pay to make time to travel and explore while celebrating Heritage Month. Related