Bantu Steve Biko s black consciousness philosophy is needed in today s South Africa, the same way it was needed and necessary under apartheid. Biko believed a brainwashed and dehumanised people could not enjoy their freedom, even if they were physically freed. Today, 40 years after his death, black South Africans are still mentally chained through being indoctrinated by the government they elected. All too often the current ruling elite behaves as if it was a carbon copy of the apartheid government, particularly when it comes to the disdain displayed to the citizens who elected it. If Biko was alive he would have been shocked by how we as a nation have enmeshed ourselves in everything that we despised from our apartheid oppressors. The vast majority of black people are still trapped in the same appalling living conditions. To take just one example, their children are at schools whose appallingly low standards of education have fallen below those of even the dreaded Bantu education. Black people with means have taken their children to the previously whites only Model C and private schools where their children are not taught in their home languages (all classes are conducted in English or Afrikaans). In many of those schools their children seldom or never see a black teacher in front of a class. What this means is that they are taught largely by people without a deep understanding of African culture teachers who grew up absorbing ideas about the inferiority of black people. Not enough effort was made to dilute that lopsided negative influence and prepare these teachers for the job of dealing with a racially integrated society. As a result, in some of these schools black children are told off for speaking English with an African accent or they are expected to wear their hair in the manner that resembles how whites do. All too often the free and democratic South Africa creates the conditions experienced by the black man under apartheid, prompting a similar mindset. Biko described him as a shell, a shadow of man, completely defeated, drowning in his own misery, a slave, an ox bearing the yoke of oppression with sheepish timidity . Far too many young black men and women find themselves in a situation in which they cannot aspire to have their own homes, schools and institutions where they can bring up their own children in accordance with their own customs, cultural values and sense of history, and educate them in a language of their own choosing. The desire to nurture a new-found pride in the black person is lost. The value system that Biko and his comrades wanted to restore has been systematically reduced to nothingness, as our people aspire to mimic the values of their former oppressors. Steve Biko Either that or they survive from scraps doled out by the government because the current system does not provide them with stable employment that would allow them to plan their lives. Unemployment dehumanises and makes people feel inferior. This year marks the 40th anniversary of Biko s murder in police custody. His death exposed the international community to the brutality and callousness of the racist National Party government. The world was particularly outraged by the callous response of then apartheid minister Jimmy Kruger, who sneered that Biko s death leaves me cold . Biko s sin was to call for the freedom and the restoration of the dignity of the black person, through propagating a philosophy of self-love and pride for who you are, a human being. It is worth remembering that apartheid s many critics were branded as communists and traitors. In the democratic South Africa, the ruling clique applies the same scare-mongering and conspiracy tactics to slam opponents by accusing critics of colluding with foreign hostile agents. People who speak out are being isolated, blackmailed, victimised and, in many instances, are pauperised through closing economic opportunities. Others have been murdered, as was the case with school teacher activist Andries Tatane from the Free State and with the massacre of the protesting miners in Marikana. The idea behind Biko s philosophy of black consciousness was to encourage self-pride and to erase the fear of the white oppressor that was instilled in black people. Biko knew that confronting the mental attitude of black people indoctrinated for centuries to feel inferior to other races was a prerequisite for physical and psychological freedom. He held the view that if one is free at heart, no man-made chains can bind one to servitude, but if one&#8217;s mind is so manipulated and controlled by the oppressor, then there will be nothing the oppressed can do to scare his powerful masters . South Africa s current masters have failed black people who are still walking under the shadow of the social patterns politically engineered by the architects of apartheid. Our rulers are currently obsessed with fanning racism when they were supposed to do away with the racially divided social engineering of apartheid. The minds of the oppressed have just changed hands from the former white oppressor to the new black oppressor. Forty years after his death, it is worth remembering that Biko maintained that every person in South Africa was a slave of the system of racism. And he went on to say, The revolutionary sees his task as liberation not only of the oppressed but also of the oppressor. An oppressive system whether in apartheid form or Zupta form is toxic and can guarantee no one happiness in the midst of perpetual tension. Related