Child labour rotten meat being fed to workers while fresh meat is given to lions and children as young as three sleeping in plastic stalls. These conditions were uncovered by parliament&#8217;s select committee on economic and business development in the Wesselsbron district in the Free State. Committee chairman Mandla Rayi expressed shock and anger at the behaviour of a farmer alleged to be feeding his workers rotten meat. This behaviour of the concerned farmer needs to be condemned strongly and discouraged. Farmers should not conduct themselves in a manner that perpetuates anger and polarisation among our people along racial lines said Rayi. The committee which conducted a week-long oversight visit in the province had raised the matter with the department of labour. Rayi said the visit was done in conjunction with the select committee on trade and international relations to assess how government-funded programmes in the province were stimulating economic growth. Department of labour director-general Thobile Lamati told the committee seasonal workers were exposed to problems like child labour health and safety risks and human trafficking. [At] Driehoek Farm &#8230; we found a group of about 80 of seasonal workers including children as young as three years old staying in unsafe and hazardous plastic stalls. According to these seasonal workers they have been staying in this accommodation since the month of May 2017 said Lamati. She said the employees informed officials that they were being fed rotten meat. The conditions there were extremely disturbing and inhuman &#8230; on this farm there are camps of lions she said. She said officials were alerted to suspected cases of child labour on a farm about 25km away from Driehoek. We found about 23 of these seasonal workers [who] appeared to be children also working. All these children were taken safely to the police station and we successfully opened a case of child labour &#8230; and the underpaid cases &#8230; were also opened by our officials Lamati said. She reported that at Graspan Farm the department issued prohibition notices due to unsafe working and living conditions after they found workers staying in a barn. Eleven children were found in another farm and taken to the police station she said. At Kwaggavlakte Farm 19 minors were employed. Related