Russell Domingo Picture: Johan Rynners/Gallo Images Russell Domingo may not have said it in as many words but he still seems keen on continuing in his role as coach of the Proteas. His contract expires after the tour of England, at the end of August with Domingo admitting the decision is out of his hands. Whether I do throw my name into the hat is not very important he said yesterday. I ve had one opportunity to take part in the 50over World Cup and if I m fortunate I d love to have another crack at it. But that s not in my control at the moment. It s the process that needs to take place that s more important and the people that make the decisions are more important. They need to do what s in the best interests of South African cricket Domingo said. I know where I want to be and I d like to be involved with South African cricket whether it s with the academy the national team or the franchises. My passion is being involved in cricket in South Africa and that s where I d like to stay. The powers above me can possibly decide where that will be and in some form or other. I hope I will stay in the system. Moving to what he had a say in Domingo and selection convenor Linda Zondi did not spring big surprises, with the inclusion of Keshav Maharaj ahead of Tabraiz Shamsi the only potential head turner. With the great test season the Dolphins have had and with his greater batting ability Maharaj was always going to knock on the limited overs door. Maharaj only played in two Momentum One-Day Cup matches, but had a big impact in one. His 5/40 on a tacky Kingsmead surface propelled the Dolphins to a 27-run win against the Lions. Maharaj gives us a bit more batting depth than a guy like Shamsi or Aaron Phangiso would offer, Domingo said. Maharaj gives us a lot of control and he s done well in the test circuit and his domestic limited overs record is fantastic. It allows us the option of breathing easier than the option of two outright spinners who can t bat. Morne Morkel forced his way into the squad in Dale Steyn s continued absence, with four all-rounders Andile Phehlukwayo Chris Morris Dwaine Pretorius and Wayne Parnell all making the cut. Aiden Markram and Khaya Zondo will captain the SA A four-day and limited over squads on their concurrent tour of England. Steyn has also been named in the four-day squad with a view to his fitness being tested ahead of the four-test series against England that starts in July. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share