A volatile meeting took on a sinister tone when Nelson Mandela Bay deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani threatened a mayoral committee member, telling him that he will sort him out and insisting that they take their spat outside. The outburst at a March 3 meeting to select a preferred candidate following interviews for a municipal public health department boss has come to light after a recording was leaked to The Herald. In the recording, Bobani can be heard telling mayoral committee member Dean Biddulph to come outside after Biddulph told him to have a good weekend when the meeting wrapped up. Bobani and Biddulph were at the Noninzi Luzipho Building with city manager Johann Mettler and corporate services acting director Vuyo Zitumane at the time. In the recording, Bobani is heard leaving a room and Biddulph tells him to enjoy his weekend. But Bobani returns seconds later and tells Biddulph in a raised voice: Don t make a laughing stock to me. I m gonna sort you out. I am telling you, I will sort you out. I will. Come outside, come, he said. Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip said yesterday Biddulph had reported the matter to him. Biddulph did lay a complaint and I escalated it to our national coalition partners, he said. Trollip declined to comment further, saying he did not discuss internal coalition matters with the media. Bobani denied threatening Biddulph, saying yesterday he had merely wanted to talk to him outside. I wish he had come out to see what my intentions were instead of everybody speculating what could have happened, he said. I wanted to make him understand what I meant as I did not want to have a disagreement with him in front of the officials. It is of concern to me that senior officials of this municipality keep leaking confidential matters to the media for their personal interest, especially if it involves my name. Biddulph said although he had reported Bobani to Trollip, he had not laid a complaint with the police. I am not concerned [about my safety], although the behaviour was certainly not becoming of someone in such a senior position. He said it would not have served any purpose to take up the offer to come outside . To respond to challenges by resorting to violence would have been unbecoming and inappropriate, Biddulph said. Mayoral committee member Dean Biddulph Picture: MARK WEST It appears as if Bobani s outburst stems from his efforts to get his adviser, Nombeko Nkomane, to take over the reins of the public health department. This is not the first time Bobani has butted heads with municipal officials and politicians over his preferred candidate. His preference for Nkomane was also evident in another recording that was leaked to the media from an earlier meeting where he lashed out at Mettler and Zitumane, calling them incompetent. In the latest recording, Bobani is heard once again advocating that Nkomane be hired, saying she meets all the requirements and is a woman a prerequisite stated in the job advertisement. Mettler yesterday described Bobani s actions as shocking. I certainly got the impression that it was a threat, he said. In fact, we were all very surprised when the deputy mayor returned to the venue. He left and literally 30 seconds later came back. He clearly interpreted it [Biddulph telling him to have a good weekend] in a particular way, as if Dean had said something wrong. I foresaw that there might be consequences and I told Dean, I am sitting right here and I was a witness to this . Mettler said they hoped to appoint a public health executive director at the next council meeting on May 4. We are still finalising the process of vetting, he said. Asked about the incident, Zitumane said: I was part of the meeting when the incident happened. I would not like to comment or give details on what happened, but I was there. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share