When looking for the ideal place to retire, the Port Elizabeth seaside suburb of Summerstrand is an excellent choice. With its beautiful ocean views and sandy beaches, Summerstrand is a retiree s dream, though people of all ages proudly call it home. The suburb is home to many retirement centres, such as Summer Dunes Retirement Village, Kingshurst and Somerson Retirement Village, which offer a welcoming community in a comfortable and safe environment. Most of the villages have good security, activities for residents and facilities for the frail. Retired couple Shirley and Clive Everton who live in an apartment in the area, say Summerstrand is a wonderful place to retire to as there is so much to do. We enjoy visiting the stalls on the beachfront over the weekend as well as eating at Something Good and Angelo s, says the Evertons. We love the views of the ocean, walking along the beach and seeing other people around the same age. Not only does Summerstrand have stunning beaches that stretch as far as the eye can see, perfect for day visits with the family or for taking a walk with the grandchildren, the area also boasts many diverse entertainment options. With the Boardwalk Hotel and Casino complex located conveniently close in Second Avenue, there s something to keep you entertained all day. The casino is open 24 hours a day and the centre contains a myriad entertainment options, such as mini golf and movies. There are restaurants to suit every budget and taste, and many provide special discounts for pensioners. If you feel like splashing out, you can visit Ginger Restaurant at The Beach Hotel. For a laid-back lunch or a late afternoon beer, Barney s Tavern near Shark Rock Pier is always popular. There are many other activities to keep you busy in the area. You can enjoy the beautiful scenery at the Cape Recife Nature Reserve has, and Bayworld is always fun especially when the grandchildren are visiting. History buffs might enjoy visiting the South End Museum and, for those who enjoy their golf, the Humewood Golf Club provides a fun day on the greens. Property prices You can expect to pay R2,4 million as a median asking price for a four-bedroom house, a typical property in this suburb. More than half of the suburb is houses 56% with apartments taking up 31% and accommodation in a complex 13% of the property available. Generally prices start at R2-million plus, and can go much higher. Rental prices are in line with the sales figures. Expect to pay rental of around R19,500 for a house, R14,660 for a property in a complex and R12,700 for a flat. Eating out Panarottis Express John Dory s The Bayside Pantry Kipling s Brasserie Simply Asia Charlie s Pizza and Pasta De Kelder Col cacchio Pizzeria Tabu at the Radisson Blu Red Rock Spur Mike s Kitchen Something Good Blue Waters Cafe Barney s Tavern Angelo s Ginger Restaurant at The Beach Hotel Beaches Hobie Beach Pollok Beach Humewood Beach Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share