Kwanobuhle hip-hop artist Ayanda Gqamane, better known to fans as Slice Preezy, is releasing a new track, Malume Nomtshana- Party ka Malume, tomorrow. The song Malume Nomtshana- Party ka Malume features fellow KwaNobuhle musician Sibusiso Klaas who Mloya (Sibusiso Klaas), left, and Slice Preezy (Ayanda Gqamane) will perform in Kwanobuhle tomorrow Picture: Mark West goes by the stage name of Mloya and was produced by DJ La Cost. It is part of Gqamane s upcoming third EP set for release later this year. Malume Nomtshana- Party ka Malume is a song dedicated to our uncles. The music we made starting out wasn t necessarily for an older crowd but our uncles, who are friends, always supported us and came to our gigs and sang along to our songs, Gqamane said. This is our way of telling them we appreciate their support. Gqamane said he and Mloya were part of a movement consisting of Zandenzani Records based in KwaNobuhle and Khanda Mo Productions based in Port Elizabeth which not only mades music but also did branding of hats, hoodies, T-shirts and scarves. The former Sisonke High School matriculant said he d been in the entertainment industry for more than 10 years and started while acting in drama productions at school. He then went on to further his artistic aspirations at the PE Opera House. I realised at school that I wanted to be involved in the arts, drama specifically, but then shifted to kwaito music. Two to three years ago, I shifted my focus more to hip-hop, Gqamane said. Not one to keep knowledge to himself, he returned to his high school after matriculating in 2008 to teach the pupils of Sisonke what he had learnt about drama. I love sharing what I know, especially with the disadvantaged youth in the community. For me to have gained more skills and knowledge about my craft I had to go to Port Elizabeth, as we don t have a craft centre in Uitenhage, Gqamane said. The launch will take place in an open field in Pityana Street, next to KwaNobuhle police station in Mkoko Street. Gqamane said he chose the venue so even children can come and hear my music and don t have to spend money to get to the venue . Gqamane s music is available on digital platforms such as SoundCloud, Reverb Nation and Data File. The launch party will take place from 1pm to 10pm. More information from Gqamane on 073-552-5461. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share