When she noticed how her shoe size did not change even though her dress size had while she was pregnant, Sherwood mother and wife Nadine Murray was inspired to open her own online shoe shop. Murray, 32, is looking forward to the official launch of her Kitibella online shoe store at the Tramways Building on Wednesday April 26 at 6pm. Kitibella, which has been operating for five months, imports shoes from China and delivers them to the customer. Our vision is to offer unique designer trends, mostly high heels, to ladies nationally, conveniently delivered to your doorstep, Murray said. She said she had noticed how her shoe size remained constant during her back-to-back pregnancies with her two children while her body weight went up and down, and realised that shoes were a good investment. I realised that [shoe] store options were becoming limited in Port Elizabeth. If you ve been to one store, then you ve seen it all. And this is when I started researching shoe manufacturers and factory outlets locally and abroad. I soon realised the business opportunity when friends and acquaintances wanted to know where I get my shoes from, Murray said. Murray She said the name of the store was inspired by her four-year-old daughter, Chloe, whom they nicknamed Kitibella after she had come home from school singing a song from which they could only make out the lyrics Kiti bella . Up until the day we opened, I had no idea what I was going to name the business until Chloe sang her kitibella tune. The next day I designed the K logo using her favourite colour pink and fell in love with the idea, she said. Murray is a qualified full time software engineer at a Port Elizabeth automotive company and runs Kitibella part time. While in no rush, Murray has plans to expand her business by selling handbags and jewellery soon. I would definitely like to open a physical store eventually but I m happy to trade online for now and have physical pop-up stores at least once every three months where clients are able to physically see and fit the shoes. Well-known Bay personality Niqui Cloete-Barass will MC the launch, which will also showcase clothing and jewellery by Jenni Gault International Jewellery, La Mohair and Ergo Zen. Light snacks and drinks with music by DJ China and DJ Puppy will be available. Tickets are R100 aper person and groups of five or more pay R80 eachper person. Visit: www.kitibella.co.za or contact 084-664-1356 on WhatsApp to purchase tickets. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share