Come the end of the week, Western Cape premier Helen Zille will appear before a disciplinary committee in a case seen as a defining moment for South Africa s main opposition party. On Sunday DA leader Mmusi Maimane announced that Zille had been charged for allegedly violating the party s constitution. Her tweets about the benefits of colonialism sparked outrage among scores of South Africans. According to Maimane, they had dented the DA s image. Crucially, her tweets were seen by some in the DA as undermining its efforts to shake off perceptions of a party whose ideology is rooted in the dismissal of the history of black oppression to preserve white privilege. The federal legal commission confirms that there is a case for Zille to answer, Maimane said on Sunday. The party has also widened the scope of its action to include subsequent public statements made by Zille which could have exacerbated her original tweets. The disciplinary action, regardless of its outcome, is a defining moment for the party. It is no secret that Zille enjoys significant support in the DA, having led the party through unprecedented growth over the years. Many of her supporters, who make up a significant chunk of its support base, do not believe that her tweets were in any way offensive. Therefore taking action against her for what they believe is simply a statement of fact, is likely to alienate them. On the other hand, a relatively new, predominantly black support base which is responsible for the party s growth trajectory in recent years fundamentally differs with Zille s tweets. They are angered. Consequently, they are looking to the party s leadership to affirm, through decisive action, that the DA is indeed a party that fully comprehends their lived experience, past and present, as it promises to deliver a better future. The DA therefore is at a crossroads. With neither Maimane nor Zille willing to back down, the outcome of this disciplinary action represents an important choice which will ultimately determine the direction of the party going forward. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share