The Dirsuwei family mom Sarah, dad Ralph and their three sons Jacob, 17, Luke, 15 and Cian, 11 &#8211; is a Port Elizabeth family is on a mission to explore the world together, spreading positivity about South Africa through their travel blog, Chasing the Rainbow &nbsp; In January, our family wrote a letter to the Universe, listing 17 adventures that we wanted to do during 2017 (#17adventures). Clearly the Universe feels strongly that this is our year for Something Fast (No. 13) because as soon as we had ticked this off our list with our last quad-biking adventure, we found ourselves on our way to Sundays River to tear down a sand mountain on specially engineered sand sleds. &nbsp; Building up courage for the rush Picture: Sarah Dirsuwei Sundays River is heaven on Earth. It lies a scenic 30 minute drive East of Port Elizabeth, meandering its way through the sleepy village of Colchester on one side and the spectacular Alexandria dune field on the other as it flows into a pristine estuary teeming with fish, birds and wildlife before finishing its journey as it joins the warm waters of the Indian Ocean. &nbsp; Cruising through Colchester Picture: Sarah Dirsuwei We chose to do the 9am cruise and arrived as the morning sun was rising just above the dunes, twinkling off the river onto the distinctive royal blue Sundays River Ferry as it bobbed on its jetty. The ferry is a two storey aluminium pontoon boat, with a large shady downstairs deck and a sunny area upstairs. &nbsp; All Aboard! Picture: Sarah Dirsuwei Captain Les Kingma welcomed us and we all gathered downstairs for a safety briefing prior to launching. Les is a picture of good health and a font of knowledge of the surrounding area. He single-handedly manoeuvres the huge boat, being the captain, deck-hand and field-guide all rolled into one. We headed upstairs to enjoy the slow cruise past sleepy holiday houses, seeing what birds we could spot along the steep sand banks and on the shallow waters below the dune fields. You can t help but breathe a sigh of relief as you leave real life behind and head out into picturesque estuary. There is something about being on water that is incredibly soothing, and time melted gently away as we cruised slowly down the Sundays River, the kids dangling their legs over the front of the big boat. &nbsp; A cruise with a view Picture: Sarah Dirsuwei As the river widened into the estuary, the ferry headed starboard and Les anchored us beneath a near vertical towering sand dune standing proudly in front of kilometres of dunes leading to the ocean. He whipped out some really nifty looking toboggans Les s own 6th generation engineered design, fine-tuned to give the rider a smooth and straight ride. &nbsp; Captain Les greasing a sled Picture: Sarah Dirsuwei Les skipped up the steep dune, followed by the teens, tweens, parents and grandparents, all of us huffing and puffing from about halfway up. It was a hell of a climb but well worth it once we reached the summit a 360 degree vista that could have graced the covers of National Geographic. &nbsp; What a stunning location Picture: Sarah Dirsuwei The captain showed us how to grease our sleds and then explained how to use them. Basically, sit still, lean back and relax. Go with the flow and the sleds will correct themselves down the curves of the dune. Try and fight it and you would risk a gritty wipe out. Our boys are quite confident since conquering many of their fears through our blogging adventures, so were first to fly down the mountain. Although their incredible speed was pretty alarming, the fact that they slid down without wiping out and raced straight back up with big grins spurred the others on. The nervous sledders each paired up with a braver counterpart and went down together. The extra weight increased their speed to a blur and there were delighted shrieks from the more vocal and sighs of relief from the introverts as they zoomed safely down the dune. When it was my turn, I closed my eyes tightly and tried to act like an eighteen month old rather than an adult following the captain s advice. The wind rushed into my face and all of a sudden it was over. I just had to go back up again to do it with my eyes open. &nbsp; And he&#8217;s off! Picture: Sarah Dirsuwei Once we had worked off our adrenalin, we had some time to relax and enjoy the river. The boys leapt off the roof of the ferry into the cool water below. Jacob fly-fished, Cian built a sand snowman and Luke played in the warm sand while we all swam and paddled in the cool river before hoisting anchor and setting sail back into Colchester. &nbsp; A South African Snowman Picture: Sarah Dirsuwei The Sundays River Ferry s combination of pure adrenalin and gentle relaxation left us feeling very content with life. It is the perfect activity for an entire family, sure to delight young, old and everyone in-between. For a chance to win four tickets for a sand-sledding river cruise with the Sundays River Ferry valued at R1 800, SMS the word RAINBOW to the number 41893. SMSes should be kept to a maximum of 320 characters at a charge of R1.50 per 160 characters. Free minutes do not apply and errors are billed. The cut-off for entries is noon on Tuesday, April 18, and the competition winner will be notified shortly thereafter. Fact Sheet Book your river cruise and sand sledding with Sundays River Ferry at http://addocruises.co.za/ Tickets cost R450 per person (April 2017) and the tour lasts 2.5 hours, departing at 9am and 3pm daily. See more from the Dirsuwei family at chasingtherainbow.net &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share