WASTING WATER: Maneshree Hart, 3, walks across a stream caused by a burst water pipe in Joe Slovo township six months ago Picture: SIYAMTANDA CAPA A pipe that burst six months ago in Uitenhage has forced dozens of residents to wade through pools of water to get in and out of their homes. Attempts to have the pipe in the Joe Slovo township repaired by the municipality have fallen on deaf ears, according to residents. The water gushing out of the pipe has created a small dam that children play in. Simphiwo Douz, 42, said the pipe had burst next to his house early in October. We went to inform our councillor about this and he convinced us that it would be fixed, he said. Douz said that after a few days had passed and nothing was done they started to lodge complaints with the municipality. We would like to know how much more water must be wasted before the municipality takes this seriously, he said. Ruan Goliath, 30, said they had reported the issue to their councillor numerous times. Instead, our councillor tells us that he is tired of seeing our faces, he said. Residents who live on the unnamed dirt road said their homes were also infested with mosquitoes. Tina Hart, 32, said the road had started to disappear due to the river of water flowing down it. We would like to have this water removed because there is no longer a street in front of our homes, she said. Our children could fall in the dirty water. This is dangerous for children. Ward councillor Tyrone Adams said he had reported numerous leaks in the Joe Slovo township to the municipality There is not one but many leaks in the area that I noticed when patrolling, he said. I have also reported this to the municipal offices and was told that it would be fixed as soon as possible. Other leaks in the area include faulty pipes linked to residents houses that do not have taps. Municipal spokesman Mzobanzi Jikazana said the leaks would be investigated. The Bay s dam levels were at 44% on Tuesday. Report water leaks to 0800-205-050. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share