Now these are two Easter recipes with a difference: try piquante pepper chocolate chip cupcakes with mascarpone icing. Not sure you fancy spice in your cupcakes? Then how about sipping on a pomegranate, piquant pepper, lime and mint cocktail? This cocktail has no alcohol in it, so is suitable for all ages but you may add a splash of rum if you are not teetotal. Either way, these are two zingy versions of old favourites. The first recipe makes 12 cupcakes and the cocktail recipe serves between four and six. Piquante pepper chocolate chip cupcakes Piquante pepper chocolate chip cupcakes Ingredients 1 cup sugar 2 eggs 1 cup flour 50ml cocoa 5ml baking powder cup milk 190ml oil 5ml vanilla essence 125ml chocolate chips 80ml chopped Peppadew piquante peppers Icing 50g butter, softened 100ml mascarpone cheese 200g icing sugar 20ml Peppadew finely chopped piquante peppers Method Beat the sugar and eggs together until double in size. Sift the flour, cocoa, and baking powder together. Mix the milk, oil and vanilla together. Add the dry ingredients to the egg alternatively with the milk mixture, Mix together and add the chocolate chips and chopped piquante peppers. Pour the batter into paper lined cupcake tins, and bake in a preheated oven at 180 C for 20 minutes. Remove from the oven and allow to cool. To make the icing, beat the butter and cheese together, add the icing sugar and beat until light and fluffy. Fold in the piquante pepper. Spread over cupcakes and enjoy! Pomegranate, piquant pepper, lime and mint cocktail Pomegranate, piquant pepper, lime and mint cocktail Ingredients 1000ml crushed ice 1 fresh pomegranate 1l pomegranate juice or cranberry juice 20ml lime juice 1 sprig of mint 12 shakes hot Peppadew splash-on sauce Method Half fill the glasses with crushed ice. Add the pomegranate rubies. Mix the juice with the lime and mint and pour over the ice. Add the Splash-on sauce to the glass and give it a mix with a swizzle stick. Serve with fresh lime wedges. For the non-teetotaller: Add four shot glasses of light rum to the juice for an alcoholic version. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share