Constable Kim Sauls Warrant Officer Werner Maree arrested a man with cocaine worth about R100 000 hidden in Grand-Pa boxes in a cereal box Picture: Supplied It would have had to have been the mother of all splitting headaches. A suspected drug dealer tried to convince police he was carrying more than 450 sachets of the popular over-the-counter painkiller, Grandpa headache powders. But in fact, the individually wrapped powders amounted to R100 000 of cocaine guaranteed to alter the mind in an entirely different way. Justin Geyser, 25, who is originally from Johannesburg but has been living in Port Elizabeth for a year, was arrested at about 11pm on Thursday while walking in Westview Drive, Newton Park, with a cereal box containing 456 headache powder sachets. He appeared in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate s Court yesterday on a charge of dealing in drugs and will reappear on Tuesday for a bail application. Alert police officers stopped to search Geyser after he was found walking in the shadows alongside the road, carrying a 600g Kellogg s Rice Krispies box. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said Geyser had been questioned and suspicions were raised when he avoided answering some questions. Police searched him and when they looked inside the [cereal] box they saw 12 Grandpa boxes, each containing 38 powder sachets. The officials opened one of the sachets and noticed that the colour was odd, Naidu said. They suspected it was cocaine. The narcotic dog from the K9 Unit was called to assist and reacted positively to the powder being cocaine. The man was taken to the police station for questioning, and it emerged that he had allegedly been walking to Central. Naidu said Geyser was believed to be a drug dealer who had been transporting the drugs for sale. We suspect that he had just collected it and was busy taking it to the distribution point where it is sold, she said. This is one of several inventive methods used by drug dealers to transport drugs under the radar. Acting Mount Road Cluster commander Brigadier Keith Meyer said: Drugs and substance abuse contribute largely to the commission of various crimes, including serious and violent crimes. Therefore, we will intensify our efforts in ensuring that drug peddlers will not make our areas a haven for their illegal trade. Meyer said efforts were under way to track down the supplier of the drug. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share