Bea Johnson Plett Tourism and Eco Atlas are bringing Zero Waste guru Bea Johnson to the Beacon Island Resort during the first Plett Tourism Thought Leadership Programme initiative on May 6. Author, speaker and lifestyle expert Johnson of Zero Waste Home and Priestess of Waste-free Living (The New York Times), is seen as a guru of the Zero Waste lifestyle. She has given more than 100 speeches in more than 20 countries on five continents since 2011, including addresses at the European Parliament, United Nations, Google, Adobe and others. Now she is coming to South Africa to do a national tour next month with talks in Cape Town, Johannesburg, Durban and Plettenberg Bay, to educate and inspire people to live a lifestyle that will reduce their waste to landfill and live a simpler, healthier lifestyle. In her visually rich and upbeat presentation, Bea shares her tribulations and secrets to achieving Zero Waste. She covers the importance of applying the five R s in order: Refuse Reduce Reuse Recycle Rot She also tries to shatter misconceptions and prove that the Zero Waste lifestyle can not only be stylish, but also lead to significant health benefits, and time and money savings . She manages to talk about her personal journey with humour and without preaching. She brings an intimidating topic down to a manageable scale, lending a unique perspective and making Zero Waste less daunting. Her non-judgmental approach inspires audiences to reflect on their lives and change their own habits. Eco Atlas is a South African ethical platform which provides a search function which enables one to find places to eat, shop, stay and play according to the priorities that are important to responsible travellers and conscious consumers. Expect to find hotels which recycle, restaurants serving ethical food or activities that empower the local community. Using the 20 Eco Choice icons the idea is to show you at a glance who is achieving sustainable goals and make informed decisions about where to go, or be inspired to source locally produced and earth-friendly goods. More information from Plett Tourism: 083-453-5331; (044) 533-4065 or e-mail projects@pletttourism.com. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share