Pierre Malan The NMMU Music Department presents its first string concert of the year, Beholden Baroque, tomorrow afternoon at the Music Conservatoire in Bird Street, Central. The programme will be filled with sacred string works performed by Pierre Malan on violin, Annamarie Serrao on cello and Jeroen Roffel on harpsichord. Jan Pieterz Sweelinck s Psalm 116 will open the programme, the title of which directly refers to this unique and beautiful composition. In notes provided by the department, it is outlined how the adapted psalm text speaks of a love for God as protector and comforter and the original melody (Louis Bourgious, 1549) is used by Sweelinck as the basis to the variation form. Sweelinck s keyboard music is extensive and influential and converse between both a domestic (harpsichord) and an ecclesiastical setting (organ). The florid lines and expressive variation techniques bring the listener to the threshold of the Baroque period. Through his work as teacher a faint link can be traced from Sweelinck to Buxtehude, composer of the year of NMMU Strings s 2017 season. Buxtehude s importance in the German baroque is manyfold, among them his introduction of Italian forms to German musical life. His Italian style sonata is scored originally for two violins, viola da gamba and continuo. Johann Sebastian Bach went to visit Buxtehude once, (a more than 200 km walk) to hear and especially to learn Buxtehude s famed style of improvisation. The Trio in D Minor is a stand-alone piece with no seeming context or reference an unusual practice for this form. An entire period later traces of Bach may be detected in Mozart s contrapuntal writing. The choice of key for the Sonata for Violin and Piano in E Minor is no accident and directly relates to the tragic events surrounding Mozart s stay in Paris in the late 1770s. Entirely in contrast is Schubert s Trio D28 in one of his favourite keys: B-flat major. Unlike Mozart s sonata, there are but small traces in the 15 year old s writing that faintly suggest a tragic muse for the music, even though the circumstances surrounding the trio s creation were very similar. The concert starts at 5pm and entry is free. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share