The Herald last week celebrated a digital milestone when the newspaper s Facebook page broke through 200 000 likes. As regular readers of this publication know, our management has sold Newspaper House in Baakens Street and the sale of this historic building means The Herald will be moving to a new home over the next year. Our printing press moved to the western suburbs some years ago, but you can rest assured the news will keep on coming, in both print and online. They say change is the only constant but what does remain unchanged is the need to keep up to date with what is happening in your community. There are indeed pressures on print newspapers around the world. However, The Herald and Weekend Post have both been building a multi-platform environment that we can with pride say is now the biggest digital news site in the province. Its focus is always, just as it is on paper, on content. The only difference now is that via our digital platforms we bring news to you as it happens in the form of a tweet, Facebook post, article, video, audio or pictures. These Facebook posts regularly reach more than a million people. The post to mark 200 000 likes on Facebook reached more than 100 000 newsfeeds and the engagement rate was extremely high as measured by more than 1 000 comments. You made your voices heard, loud and clear, that you love Port Elizabeth. Together we love bringing you all the news about its happenings, in print and online. Has indeed the role of a newspaper changed that much since the mid-19th century era of John Paterson? We think not. Each day on our pages you will find reports that afflict the comfortable and comfort the afflicted , as another Victorian era journalist describes the job of a newspaper. Add to that informing and entertaining the reader and it is clear that a strong daily newspaper is an integral part of a city, particularly our Friendly City, which has such a diverse and articulate population. Whether or not you buy the printed paper in the morning, tap into our e-edition, skim the latest updates online, or consume news via our Facebook, YouTube, Twitter or Instagram channels, we are thrilled that you are thirsty for news of your community. Thank you for your support. These are exciting times for the media stay with us for the ride! Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share