SURF MASTER: Daniel Jones, of Summerstrand, has been included in the national team to compete in the Sanyo International Lifesaving Cup in June Picture: Supplied Top effort at club lifesaving champs rewarded Summerstrand&#8217;s Daniel Jones was named in the South African national squad after an outstanding series of performances at the General Tire LifeSavingSA National Interclub Championships in Camps Bay. The action now moves to Port Elizabeth s Kings Beach, from today until Saturday, which will play host to 800 of the country s lifesaving youngsters in the Nippers National Interclub Championships. Jones aside, the championships also saw dominating performances from East London s Josh Fenn, who won the U17 overall boys title. Talented Kings Beach sprinter Bradley Odendaal finished third in the senior men s 90-metre final and teenager Amica de Jager continued to impress. Fish Hoek reaffirmed its standing as the premier force at the interclub championships. Last year;s national champions dominated the seniors division to add this year s national title to the Western Province Interprovincial title won earlier this year. Durban Surf s juniors were crowned this year s national champions. Fish Hoek s Nicholas Notten was the top overall athlete among the men and Marine LifeSaving Club superstar Carmel Billson was the best woman overall. Notten and Billson were also selected to the national squad. The championships produced brilliant performances from Notten, Fish Hoek s Kirsty Flanagan, Billson and Mandi Maritz in the lags. All made the national squad. But the story of the championships was 20-year-old Jonathan Rorke s stunning photo-finish upset against the country and world s most celebrated beach sprinter, Ryle de Morny. Rorke, from the Scottburgh Club in KwaZulu-Natal, beat False Bay s De Morny in his first appearance at a national championship. De Morny won gold in the flags, beating False Bay clubmate Tariq Hassiem, who was famously saved from a great white shark attack by older brother Achmat. Achmat lost his leg and nearly his life in saving his brother s life, and both brothers were in inspirational presence during the national championships. Achmat competed in the inaugural Legends Celebrity challenge, which was won by Percy Montgomery, the record points scorer in Springbok test history and a 2007 Rugby World Cup winner. Montgomery donated 50% of his R20 000 winning cheque to LifeSaving South Africa s water education programme, WaterSmart and the other half to the SA Children s Home charity. Durban Surf s Tamryn Montgomery won the U19 individual title, Suncoast Pirates Alice Edwards took first among the U17s and Tamryn McKie won the overall U15 girls title. The old and young in KwaZulu-Natal celebrated for good reason as Durban Surf s magnificent juniors again took the overall title and Suncoast Pirates icon Stacey Bowley was honoured for being inducted into the International Hall of Fame. Suncoast Pirates Travis Misdorp won the U19 boys overall title, Fenn the U17s and Durban Surf s Conor Botha the U15s. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share