A team of municipal workers could face serious punishment after they were filmed dumping building rubble on a Port Elizabeth beach earlier this week. Nelson Mandela Bay officials from the infrastructure and engineering directorate s fleet management services are now trying to track down the vehicle seen in the video. Municipal spokesman Mzobanzi Jikazana said this was a serious incident that would be investigated. Municipal workers are not allowed under any circumstances to dump or dispose of any form of waste, be it domestic, builder s rubble or industrial waste on any beach, Jikazana said. The video was taken by Despatch resident Piet van Dyk, 56, who happened to be at the popular braai spot, across the road from the Humewood Golf Club, around lunchtime on Wednesday. I was having a braai for lunch when I saw the bakkie with the trailer pull up to the beach. There were one or two other cars as well, Van Dyk said. The workers casually got out, walked to the back of the trailer and started throwing rocks and pieces of cement onto the sand. I took out my phone and took the video. I could not believe what I was seeing. They did not even try to hide it. It was so blatant. Jikazana said the video had been shown to the heads of the relevant directorates, and while it was difficult to see the vehicle s fleet number clearly, every effort would be made to track down the officials. The municipality is not aware of a reason that would have given permission to the municipal workers to dispose of rubble at that particular location. Disposal of any form of waste is prohibited at all municipal beaches, he said. This activity has never been supported by the municipality. , Any residents caught dumping at beaches, or other unauthorised locations, can be issued with a R2 000 spot fine. Jikazana said municipal officials were obligated to dispose of all refuse, whether it be building material or domestic refuse, at designated landfill sites, such as the Arlington or Koedoeskloof landfills. The information about this incident will be forwarded to the senior beach patrol officer, who will take the matter further for prosecution. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share