Call for Jacob Zuma to resign The current divisions in the ANC make the power dynamics of South African politics more interesting. It is vital that the ANC alliance is reviewed. Will opposition parties use this prospect produced by the ANC division? There is a similarity in pattern from two events: the ANC national elective conference in Polokwane in 2009, and the late Ahmed Kathrada s funeral and memorial services. I saw the gathering of people who share a universal foe. They were not regarding people on the ground, but it was the battle of individuals fighting to be in authority! When we citizens vote the impression is given that only politicians benefit, with politicians getting positions and moving from rural areas to urban areas. What about the voters? The media can report on diverse themes about President Jacob Zuma s cabinet reshuffle, but do the ordinary masses on the ground, who are voters, comprehend the implication of the instability in the Treasury? Because receiving the information and understanding it are two entirely different stories. Campaign like FeesMustFall were trying to illustrate to us the magnitude of political and economic education, among other things, needed in our country. In South Africa very few are able to get to varsity level, and understand both political affairs and the financial system dynamics. The manifesto of the ANC, among five paramount pillars, promised to create decent jobs, but we see national EPWP programmes implemented as an alternative of those jobs. Not many are in a position to question this false advertising. The allies of the ANC are discovering there is a conflict of interest, where they have to choose between the politics of the stomach or political patronage, and the ordinary masses on the ground. We can no longer differentiate between communists and the bourgeoisie. Is the South African Communist Party (SACP) still advocating that it is the vanguard of ordinary masses on the ground? The masses of our people seek the land back, free education and employment, among other priorities. What is the SACP s position because you can t be half pregnant? Is the biggest South African trade union federation still existing or prepared to hand over command? I am trying to remind people that the alliance of the ANC, the trade union federation and the SACP was formed to benefit the ordinary masses on the ground, not politicians or the few connected. All the opposition parties are failing the ordinary masses on the ground, when they can t deal with the plight of the poor in our society. Are all the opposition parties united on the issues of land, free education and Zuma s dispensation? The retort is no. I acknowledge that we dwell in a democracy in South Africa, but do we need many political parties contesting elections? I don t think this system benefits the ordinary masses on the ground, since politics is about having a majority in parliament and in councils. The time for the ANC alliance is clearly over now! Opposition parties in South Africa can be more robust and could be reduced to only two parties opposing the ruling party. There is a grave need for political and economic education for the ordinary masses on the ground. The rebellion against the government is not for the benefit of the ordinary masses on the ground, but for the few individuals who seek regime change. No matter who becomes president tomorrow, the current status quo of the system in South African will not change. It will not matter to the ordinary masses on the ground. I trust this cabinet reshuffle is not licence for certain families to misuse our coffers in the name of a nuclear deal and many other shenanigans. I would like to see the equivalent enthusiasm from movements like SaveSA, Black First Land First and those pushing for decolonisation for graduate unemployment and inequality that still persists between South Africa s minority groups and the majority of the ordinary masses on the ground. If there will be any revolution from now in South Africa, let it benefit the ordinary masses on the ground. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share