PREACHING TO THE CONVERTED: Hlaudi Motsoeneng briefs the media on his achievements while head of the SABC and his plans for the corporation&#8217;s salvation Picture: ALON SKUY Hlaudi Motsoeneng s media briefing was described as a grandstanding charade of selfglorification by the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) yesterday. The suspended SABC boss claimed during a briefing about the state of affairs at the broadcaster that if he ran for president of South Africa he would win. He also stood by his decision to broadcast 90% local content on radio stations. To us it is clear Mr Motsoeneng accepts no responsibility for the plight and poor performance the SABC has suffered during his tenure, Outa s portfolio director Dominique Msibi said. His staged performance along with those singing his praises for the SABC 90% local content policy ignores the fact the SABC has suffered immensely as a direct result of his decisions. The Western Cape High Court ruled late last year that Motsoeneng s appointment as the SABC s group executive of corporate affairs was unlawful and irrational. He is still drawing an executive salary pending a disciplinary hearing which he said he was looking forward to. Motsoeneng said The Friends of Hlaudi Motsoeneng had organised the media briefing because he had been inundated with questions about his suspension. Everywhere I go people are asking about these allegations, Motsoeneng said. Around the world people talk about Hlaudi. They even don t know what this man looks like. Outa questioned whether the media conference was an attempt to derail the interim SABC board s work to investigate what had happened at the broadcaster under his leadership. Outa is impressed at the interim board s swift action to address damage caused by Mr Motsoeneng s conduct and will assist by providing facts and input on questionable decisions entered into by the SABC over the past few years, Msibi said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share