There was a seismic shift in the landscape of the troubled EP Rugby Union when Andre Rademan was named president after a tense election battle. Rademan is clearly a man with the stomach for a fight and all eyes will be on him when he starts one of the toughest jobs in South African sport. Apart from helping to uplift rugby at grassroots level, Rademan has vowed to fight any bid to axe the Southern Kings from Super Rugby. With the union torn apart by warring factions in recent times, the new president has been given a clear mandate by EP clubs to put the troubled union back on its feet. There were no signs of division among delegates when the popular Rademan ousted George Malgas, Tony McKeever and Stag Mitchell in the race for the presidency. Two of the most outspoken critics of previous president Cheeky Watson also won key positions in the revamped EP executive. The new deputy president of the union is Bantwini Matika and Chico February will fill the role of vice-president as the EP union looks to repair its tarnished image. The first thing Rademan did was promise East Cape rugby supporters that he would bring the game back to the people and make them proud of the union. When Rademan was declared the winner, there was a loud cheer from a hall packed with clubs who clearly approved of the new man at the helm. Among his many challenges, Rademan will have to find a solution to the financial crisis which brought EP Rugby to its knees. There is hope that the change in leadership will encourage potential sponsors to get behind the union and help it once again to become a force in the South African game. Rademan says one of the first things he will do is address the liquidation problem and he then plans to engage role players like Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip and SA Rugby bosses. The new man says he will need the help of the community if he is to be successful in his quest to fix rugby in the region. If Rademan is to be successful in his quest to turn EP around, he will need the support of all rugby lovers and the local business community. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share