Olivia Allan at the easter egg hunt held at the Robert Searle Park last weekend Picture: Eugene Coetzee Ruth, 2, and her dad Seth Bouah search for eggs at the Robert Searle Park Harsheila and Kamlesh Riga, left, Janet Cherry and Pieter Swart at the opening of the Between States of Emergency exhibition at the NMMU Gallery Picture: Mark West Kader Abdulla, left, Jonathan van der Walt and Gishma Johnson attend the opening of the Between States of Emergency exhibition at the NMMU Gallery Picture: Mark West Guests, from left, Sarah Walmsley, Sylvan Blignaut, Yorick Julie and Kelley Felix attend the opening of the Between States of Emergency exhibition at the NMMU Gallery Picture: Mark West Friends, from left, Ndikho Kondlo, Lindile Bobani and Mthunzi Mali attend the launch of BMan&#8217;s Lounge&#8217;s Gentlemen&#8217;s Club in KwaNobuhle Picture: Isozama Productions Nondwe Hempe, left, and Bongiwe Matroos had fun at the launch of BMan&#8217;s Lounge&#8217;s Gentlemen&#8217;s Club in KwaNobuhle Picture: Isozama Productions Phumeza Njomba, left, and Uwuvile Ngcume attended the launch of BMan&#8217;s Lounge&#8217;s Gentlemen&#8217;s Club in KwaNobuhle Picture: Isozama Productions Lauren Mungur and Charlotte, 2, enjoyed the Splash Festival during the Easter Weekend Picture: Eugene Coetzee Rapper Kwesta performs at the Splash Festival in Hobie Beach Picture: Eugene Coetzee Noskhura Njobe, left, and Yonke Gesha at the Vision4 Women camp for matric girls held in Humewood Picture: Gillian McAinsh Lindiwe Mangisa-Mabele, left, and Sybil Ndongeni enjoy a break during the Vision4 Women camp for matric girls held in Humewood Picture: Gillian McAinsh Hello darlings, it s your favourite gossip girl who is hoping to have some proper meat again this weekend. This Easter business saw me stuffing my face with pickled fish, fried fish and even grilled fish, and I am by now well and truly over all things fishy. But enough about my carnivorous cravings. Last Thursday night I attended photographer and businessman Mthunzi Mali s birthday celebrations which coincided with the launch of a gentlemen s club at BMan s Lounge in KwaNobuhle. If you can recall it was freezing on Thursday night, but we were all out in force. The place attracted a solid crowd and all the girls were there in their winter coats and hooker heels. One of your Skinnerbek s favourite socialites to watch is Theo Klaas. As usual he was the life of the party, showing off his slick dance moves and making sure his glass was never empty. I don t know why I haven t mentioned him before, but DJ Cute is also worth watching. And yes, ladies, he certainly lives up to his name. He is Uitenhage s regular yellow-bone and DJ Lulo Caf has nothing on him But sshh, don t tell him I said so we wouldn t want all the attention going to his head. Skinner s sources at the annual Splash festival agree the only good thing about this evergreen Easter event was seeing hip-hop artist Kwesta up on stage performing Ngud . Truth be told, over the years excitement over the festival has waned and I hope the organisers are not oblivious to this and will do something to freshen it up in future. Another highlight was Uitenhage singer Courtney Courus, who looked edgy in a gold-inspired look supported by an asymmetrical hairstyle. There were definitely fewer crowds than in previous years and it did not help that some of the activities had to be cancelled due to the bad weather. Until next time, my darlings, ciao for now! Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share