Port Elizabeth singer Amanda Faku s dream of being South Africa s favourite voice continues, although she lost out on her coach s vote she won with another in The Voice SA on Sunday night. Faku s own coach Lira did not choose her but she did become rival coach Karen Zoid s second steal in the nail-biting episode. Faku, 23, who went head to head with Cape Town singer Spha Mdlalose in the penultimate episode of the &#8220;Battle Rounds&#8221; sang Owl City s Fireflies. It s not a song I would have personally chosen for my Battle but I am open to challenges and in a competition like this, you have to be ready for any challenge, Faku said. Before coach Lira picked Mdlalose over Faku, she reassured the Zinyoka township native who had never been on a stage before prior to auditioning for the singing competition that she belonged on the stage. I do wish I could keep both of you &#8230; but I have to make this decision based on who I think will make the best of this opportunity, Lira said. However, Zoid cut her off before she could continue and snapped up the Port Elizabeth singer. Zoid, whose chair had originally turned for Faku during her auditions, hit her steal button before Lira s word were even cold. She told a tearful Faku the first minute I heard your voice in the Blind Auditions I knew I was listening to a superstar. Still surprised at the turn of events, Faku said she could not believe what had happened and was relieved her journey on The Voice SA had not ended. I just ran to her and gave her the biggest hug of gratitude. It means a lot to know she that had confidence in me and my abilities, she said. On how she felt about being on #TeamKaren, Faku said she was excited and I have heard nothing but great things about her coaching skills and she is a fantastic person . Faku added if there was anything she could change about her performance on Sunday night would be to connect more with the audience and have some stage confidence . The winner of season two of The Voice SA will walk away with R250 000 cash from Dialdirect, Samsung products, a Subaru Impreza 2.0 Premium CVT and a R100,000 Truworths fashion voucher. Fellow Bay contestants are also shaping up: Emma Ellis is through to the knock-out rounds on April 30 while Alex Cavan will battle it out in the final episode of the Battle-Rounds next Sunday. The Voice SA is on Channel 101 on Sundays at 5.30pm and repeats Mondays at 6pm on Channel 115. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share