Courtney Pearce Port Elizabeth s McWilliams Academy of Dance is the beneficiary of a pop-up evening of art and design on Wednesday, April 26 at the GFI Art Gallery. Exhibitors include ceramic artists Nicci Stewart, Marlene Nepgen, Lisa Walker, Ayanda Mji, Saabirah Hendricks, Bianca Whitehead, Freekalee and Billie McNaughton. In addition, the NMMU Collective of ceramic honours students will have work on sale. Other exhibitors include Mohair South Africa, BEE Pure natural body products, Yayakhoyethu textiles, Tukabijoux accessories and Alive jewellery. The dance studio has been making history this month, with four dancers Courtney Pearce, Siobhan Moore, Michaela Flood and Jenna Hayes excelling at the Irish Dancing World Championships in Dublin. Pearce, 24, made history, when she became the first South African to ever recall at the championships, which essentially means that after the initial two rounds her collective score placed her in the top 50 competitors, who are then given the opportunity to dance one more item for the panel of adjudicators in the final round. Pearce came 47th out of 204 competitors in the women s over-21 category and was awarded a prestigious recall medal, which Mad studio owner Jennifer McWilliams described as a dream come true . This is the 10th year that South African dancers have been competing at Worlds and it s an incredible honour to be the dance teacher of the first female to ever make it to the recall round, McWilliams said. Moore, 20, also made headlines, when she was the only South African dancer to be awarded the Aisling Award at Worlds This award is given to the highest placed dancer, per age category from a developing country, which includes mainland Europe, Asia and South America. The pop-up ceramic sale is from 6pm at the gallery in Park Drive and admission is free. There will be refreshments and all proceeds will go to the Irish dancers from McWilliams Academy of Dance. Further information on the pop- Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share