KB Picture: Instagram/KB Musician and TV star Keabetswe Mamosadi popularly known as KB hopes to break stereotypes associated with Afrikaans and black culture with her new role on popular Afrikaans soapie 7de Laan. KB who plays the role of a feisty and powerful lawyer on the show made her on-screen debut on Monday evening. The star told TshisaLIVE that she was nervous to see how fans of the show would react to her new role but hoped that her character would help break stereotypes about Afrikaans and black culture. My character wasn t supposed to speak much Afrikaans, but I actually requested from the producers that they include more Afrikaans dialogue. I have studied Afrikaans and I feel confident about my abilities but for me it is more about showing that Afrikaans and black culture are not from different worlds and can co-exist KB said. The soapie has several actors of colour who speak Afrikaans on the show but still made headlines late last year amidst allegations of racial tension on set. KB admits the culture on set was very Afrikaans but said that she was always made to feel welcome. Whenever I arrive on a new project I prefer to just sit back and take in the environment before trying to make any changes in the way I see it or in the way I feel I should approach it. From the first week on 7de Laan, I was made to feel welcome. Everyone was accommodating and offering to help me with whatever I needed. I felt like part of the family from the moment I arrived and I have not once felt like my skin colour or culture was a problem on set KB added. KB s role signals a return to TV for the actress. She admitted that she had not planned to make a comeback especially on a soapie. I took a year off and decided to focus on my music. At the time I didn t think I would return to TV never mind a soapie but when 7de Laan called me it immediately felt right. I knew that I had to take the role. It represented not only a new challenge for me but also a chance for people to see me in a whole new light. That is what is most important to me she said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share