Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng File picture: Alon Skuy / The Times Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng failed to find the humour when Eastern Cape Deputy Judge President Zamani Nhlangulela tried to light-heartedly brush off allegations that judges in some courts arrived at work at 11am. Deputy Judge President Nhlangulela was being interviewed for the Judge President position. I don t have that experience of judges arriving in court at 11 Nhlangalula told the Judicial Services Commission (JSC) which is conducting the interviews. I only have two eyes. If only I had 10 eyes I would know so now I am relying on being told said Nhlangalula adding that he hadn t been informed of such a problem. Another commissioner said the issue had been reported in the media but Nhlangalula maintained that he had never received complaints based on this. He claimed he was doing his best to resolve all issues in the courts and he was happy with his progress. Personally I am happy. Even if you don t give me credit I am happy. I can sleep at night with my family Nhlangalula replied. A seemingly displeased Mogoeng replied: I have a problem in the manner in which you make light of serious things and these are serious things that affect the judiciary You are there making jokes of things which discredit the judiciary . Nhlangalula then toned down his responses and apologised. He has been the Deputy President of the Eastern Cape High Court since 2016. He had acted in the position since 2015. Earlier Mogoeng called on him to brag about what he had achieved since he took on the position. Nhlangalula responded that he had managed to unite the judges and improve the turnaround time in the delivery of the judgments. But when prodded to give numbers he did not have the statistics. Mogoeng was surprised saying he himself was abreast of such issues in the Constitutional Court which he was in charge of it. It is my job to know. I live it Mogoeng said. Nhlangalula is one of four candidates who is vying for the Judge President post. The JSC is expected to recommend one of the candidates to President Jacob Zuma for consideration. TMG Digital Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share