Elza van Lingen is the new Kouga mayor Picture: Eugene Coetzee Kouga Municipality is battling a bloated wage bill as it employs almost double the number of staff it should for a municipality its size. The municipality is in a difficult situation as it does not want to get rid of staff. However, it urgently needs to cut its spending on salaries. The money spent on paying staff is hampering the municipality s efforts to implement more affordable tariff increases in the next financial year, starting on July 1. About 31% of the operational budget went towards salaries, Kouga mayor Elza van Lingen said. We have 1 137 employees but we are only supposed to have around 700, she said. We have to talk to the unions and the council about what can be done to solve the problem. Our money is going more towards employee costs [instead of] service delivery. I drive around our townships and see how dirty they are. Refuse has not been collected and there are water leaks everywhere. Van Lingen said no one would lose jobs but employees would be placed in service-driven departments. There are a lot of challenges with employees, she said. Some are misusing vehicles, taking kids to school while refuse is not collected. We promised our township residents they will see clean streets and that is what we need to do. Another big factor putting pressure on the municipality s ability to reduce its rates and service charges is its water bill with the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality. Van Lingen said the metro was overcharging for water because it had not been able to cut usage by 15%. This is over and above the R46-million Kouga already owes the Bay municipality for its outstanding water account. Van Lingen said residents and businesses were already paying high tariffs for water and other services. The hikes that will take effect from July are: property rates 8%, water 9.5%, sanitation and refuse 9%, 1.88% for electricity and environmental management fee 6%. We have a very small tax base and we need job creation, Van Lingen said. Because of the [water] crisis at the Nelson Mandela Bay metro, we had to increase our water tariff by 9.5%, which is problematic for us. We have to explore other water sources. Van Lingen said the Kouga council agreed on Thursday that alternative water sources should be looked at urgently. We cannot deal with water restrictions for three years waiting for the Nooitgedacht scheme to be completed, she said. That means our water situation is entirely in the hands of the metro. We have to explore additional water sources. Meanwhile, the total draft budget of R878.6-million was noted by the council on Thursday and is now subject to public participation. Van Lingen said the municipality had set aside R67.1-million to replace its ageing fleet, constructing the Westerton Sports facility and upgrading the Kruisfontein Wastewater Treatment Works. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share