Nestled in the outskirts of Port Elizabeth, Kamma Park is a real nature lover s dream. Tucked between Lorraine and Theescombe, this quaint area has a green countryside which appeals to many families. A big drawcard for residents is the fact that while it s close enough to everything that makes life more convenient, it s far enough into the country that residents don t have to hear the noise of traffic or the general hustle and bustle of city life. The area is especially quiet and peaceful during off-peak traffic times. There are more species of birds that visit residents yards than in many other areas in Port Elizabeth. This is because the area is on the perimeter of the city and close to farms and plots further up Kragga Kamma Road. The Kragga Kamma Game Park, which is a few minutes drive away, is home to numerous game including the southern white rhino, South African cheetah, Burchell s zebra, South African giraffe, nyala, bontebok, lechwe and the African buffalo. Accommodation at the park is unfenced, allowing guests to have up close encounters with wildlife. Any type of vehicle can safely make its way through the park on a self-drive safari. There have been several developments in the area, like the Checkers store which was recently built down the road. Until Baywest Mall was built a few years ago, the Walker Drive mall was the only shopping centre in the area. Another drawcard of the area, especially for homeowners, is the large erven typically found here. While many of the houses are usually three-bedroom homes, the area has started to see the development of more townhouse complexes. The area also attracts many new families. Parents can walk or cycle with their children without having to worry about cars speeding past. Everything is so green. Even in the drought the grass is greener than most other places in PE, says resident Stuart York. PROPERTY PRICES Expect to pay R1,54m for a typical three-bedroomed house in this area. 78% of the properties are houses, and 22% of the homes are in a complex. THINGS TO DO NEARBY Head to Sardinia Bay Beach, which is about a 10-minute drive away. Take the kids to Holmeleigh Farm to feed and pet a variety of farm animals. Visit Kragga Kamma Game Park. KRAGGA KAMMA GAME PARK: Play a few rounds of golf at the Kragga Kamma Golf Course. BEST IN FOOD Thatchwoods: for Sunday lunch Roccellas Pizza Pasta: for authentic Italian cuisine Friends and Blends: for great coffee Wok-on-Inn: for Chinese takeaway CHILD-FRIENDLY PLACES TO VISIT Happy Huts Playground and Party Venue African Sky s: a top-class venue with a restaurant and an animal touch farm Kragga Kamma Game Park Holmeleigh Farmyard Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share