FORGING AHEAD: Transport portfolio head Rano Kayser, left, with Advocate Fezile Gaushe, chairman of the industrial empowerment and transition committee of the IPTS Picture: FREDLIN ADRIAAN Pilot launch of IPTS set for end of next month The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality has started training 144 taxi operators who will be in charge of running its bus system from the end of next month. The operators, who will drive the integrated public transport system (IPTS) buses along the Cleary Park route, were inducted by the city s political head of roads and transport, councillor Rano Kayser yesterday. The training will include driving lessons, as well as ensuring all operators have the necessary learners and drivers licences for Codes 10 and 14. About 100 taxi operators will be trained for Code 10 and 44 for Code 14. We are not going to outsource drivers. We will empower and use the affected operators, Kayser said. The pilot launch is set for the end of next month with the system expected to be fully operational from June. We have 25 buses, but the operators are not going to work like they do with taxis, Kaiser said. Where someone starts the shift at 5am until late at night, we are going to have them working in shifts. IPTS buses will start operating from 5am to 9pm during the week. During peak hours it is expected that there will be a bus at stops every 10 minutes, while the off-peak time is expected to be every 30 minutes. Construction of bus shelters and remedial work on bus lanes has started. Kayser said jobs had been created during the construction phase and more employment opportunities would be available for security guards, bus cleaners and other operational-related services. He said the first priority would be to absorb those working in the taxi industry. For the full story read The Herald, or get the complete newspaper, including comics, classifieds, crosswords and back editions in our e-Edition. &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share