Port Elizabeth advertising whiz Jennifer Lindridge adores Easter and has become known for her very memorable gatherings at this time of year. She typically decorates her and hubby Dr Rob Campbell s entire home with bunnies, hens, eggs and all things bountiful. The children in the couple s friendship and family circle hunt for eggs and everyone is treated to a marvellous Easter spread afterwards, including the most darling iced bunny and carrot biscuits, and other hand-made treats. For the past two years, Jennifer s fascination with Easter has extended to making panoramic sugar eggs in the Victorian tradition a throw-back to her childhood in the US, where they remain popular. The highly detailed creations are essentially hollow eggs made entirely of sugar, with a small peephole in the top revealing an enchanting Easter scene inside. Ducks and bunnies peep back at you from their flower-adorned, sugary nests in the prettiest of pastel shades. I grew up receiving a sugar egg every year, only I never ate mine, but treasured them, Jennifer recalled. It is not clear where the tradition started, but in the US people buy the intricate and beautiful creations as keepsakes, since the sugar doesn t spoil. Last year I wanted to give one to my then two-year-old nephew, but I couldn t find any in South Africa and no one would ship them to this country. Undeterred, Jennifer decided to figure out how to make them herself. It was messy chaos at first I went through more bags of sugar than I could count. But it was a lot of fun and I made about 40 eggs last year mostly as gifts. This year she made about 30, half as gifts and the rest to sell, having been inundated with requests. All in all, between the moulding, the time needed for the drying and hardening, and the making of the figures for the scene inside, it takes me about four days to complete one, she said. I love doing it, but only once a year! It s a nice change from the world of advertising &#8230; just creating something for it s own sake. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share