Marnus Markram and Levin Slabbert of Cuyler Butchery, which won a platinum award Picture: Brian Witbooi Five recognised as among best in country Five Nelson Mandela Bay butcheries have proved they are a cut above the rest after being acknowledged as being among the best in the business nationally and the best in the Eastern Cape at the coveted Cleaver Awards hosted in Johannesburg. The five Bay butcheries that outshone their competitors included Cuyler Butchery in Uitenhage, which earned first place and a Platinum Cleaver Award in the Three and more tills category, and Marinda Butchery in Linton Grange, Port Elizabeth, which scooped a Platinum Cleaver Award in the Up to three tills category. Port Elizabeth s Sunridge SUPERSPAR took the Platinum Cleaver Award in the Meat Market category, while two Walmer-based butcheries, Two Fat Butchers and Our SUPERSPAR, earned runner-up Gold Cleaver Awards in the Up to Three tills and Meat Market categories respectively. The Cleaver Awards, which are supported by leading spice and meat processing equipment supplier Freddy Hirsch and are based on consumer award nominations, are directed at meeting consumers needs by raising butchery industry standards, while acknowledging achievers in the sector. Some of the finalists scored up to 99.8% on the 212-point checklist which is used to assess contestants, Dave Ford, the chairman of the South African Red Meat Industry Forum, which initiated the awards, said. This means that for some of the top butcheries in the country, the difference between winning or not winning a Cleaver Award could come down to a point of a percent. Nominations were opened towards the end of last year and a record number of more than 35 000 were received. Among the points on which butcheries are scored are in-store hygiene, the supply of quality-assured, roller-marked South African beef, competency in offering the best advice on meal preparations and perceived value for money. Cuyler Butchery owner Leon Slabbert said he was thrilled with the accolade. This is our fourth Cleaver Award and three of them have been awarded to us in consecutive years. It really means a lot to the business and we are excited about the win. Slabbert said standards during the latest edition of the awards were exceptionally high. The average score for entrants was at around 97%, which translates into very high standards for businesses, which is very good for butchery customers, he said. Andrew Broughton, who is one of the Two Fat Butchers, said the award was evidence of the great support the business received from its customers. He said the recognition served as strong motivation to improve the business even more. Marinda Butchery owner Rynard Wilkens said he wanted to convey his thanks to his customers who had played a big role in the business s success at the awards. This is the first time that we have won a Cleaver Award and we are very pleased. We are certainly going to try hard to win it again next year, he said. Sunridge SUPERSPAR s butchery manager Juan Keyper said: I am very proud of the award, which is the third the business has been awarded since 2012. The recognition is a great boost for the butchery. We pride ourselves on delivering consistent quality. Bernard Zaayman, who owns Our SUPERSPAR, said that the latest award was the eighth the business had earned since 2009. It is a big deal for our store. We believe that quality, consistency and our extensive range have played an important role in our success, he said. We sell meat worth more than R1-million every month, so the award also speaks of the satisfaction customers experience at our butchery. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share