NEW PARTNERS: Klinicare Pharmacies managing director Deon Schoeman and SPAR Group Eastern Cape managing director Conrad Isaac at Pharmacy at SPAR at Brighton Square shopping centre in New Brighton Picture: FREDLIN ADRIAAN SPAR and leading pharmacy group link in exciting new partnership The SPAR Group in the Eastern Cape yesterday reached a major milestone in its drive to introduce pharmaceutical services when it launched a partnership with leading Nelson Mandela Bay pharmacy group Klinicare Pharmacies. The joint venture forms part of the SPAR Group of Southern Africa s ongoing national initiative to add a third independent offering to its existing general retailers and Tops at SPAR liquor stores. Yesterday s launch at the Radisson Blu Hotel in Port Elizabeth saw 15 independent pharmacies in the Bay, all of which fall under the Klinicare group s umbrella, formally launching their partnerships with SPAR. The SPAR Group, which has been operating in South Africa for more than 50 years, comprises distribution centres and independent retailers across the country. This same model, which involves independent pharmacies being located in the immediate vicinity of SPAR stores, giving both entities mutual trading benefits such as increased foot traffic, forms the foundation of the Pharmacy at SPAR concept. Pharmacies in partnership with SPAR stores benefit from branding, marketing and advertising as well as procurement through SPAR s significant buying power, well-established supply chains and extensive logistics systems. Yesterday s launch was preceded by the unveiling of a new pharmacy at Brighton Square shopping centre in New Brighton last week. Speaking at the new store, SPAR Group Eastern Cape managing director Conrad Isaac said he was very excited by the new partnership with Klinicare. SPAR, as the biggest food retailer in the Eastern Cape, has 113 stores across the province, he said. We are looking at developing relationships towards increasing the pharmacy footprint at other stores in the province which presently do not have any pharmacies associated with them. For SPAR, it has been about supporting and developing local entrepreneurs and keeping profit in the province. This is the main reason behind out partnerships with local entrepreneurs, Isaac said. Klinicare Pharmacies founder and managing director Deon Schoeman said the new outlet would offer full dispensary services, which in the near future would include access to a doctor stationed at the store. While this is an exciting development for us, it is also exciting for the New Brighton community who now have access to new pharmacy and health care services, Schoeman said. His pharmacy group encompasses more than a dozen independent pharmacies across Nelson Mandela Bay. He said the partnership would also assist in the commercialisation of the pharmacy group s current business model. This partnership is certainly going to take Klinicare to new heights. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share