&nbsp; Eleanor Douglas-Meyers is a crafty mom from Uitenhage who writes about DIY, parenting, natural hair care, fashion, food and fun on her blog JustEllaBella &nbsp; &nbsp; My son sat me down the other day and told me that if I wanted to have another baby he would be okay with it. He knows he is big now (a whole four years this month) and can t do baby things with me anymore, so if I needed that and I wanted to, I could have a baby and he wouldn t be cross. Such a sweet sentiment which, I m guessing comes from the fact that there are so many new babies in the family and he does not want me to feel left out. The thing is I do want a baby (don t get excited people, I m still happy with one) I don t want a baby I want Aidan as a baby. He is growing so fast that it s freaking me out! *Totally singing I Want My Baby Back, Baby Back Ribs from Austin Powers STOP ITALICISE for some reason* I think part of the broody feeling I m having is that I woke up and there was a big kid living with us. A potty-trained, own snack-making, self-dressing, back-chatting kid. One who tells me that Just because , is not an answer and insists on doing everything himself. He asks a thousand questions a day and wants to know the meaning of words and also how to pronounce things correctly. You speak with your mout, mouf, mouth am I right mommy? Mouth? What does peculiar mean? Does singing come from the same place as talking? All this big kid behaviour has me missing his babyhood. I miss the goo goo ga ga, the cuddling up in my arms to sleep. I miss him letting me dress him and getting to decide what we do without an argument. I miss carrying him around in a baby wrap and even miss waking up in the middle of the night to breastfeed. People always say they grow up so fast and I always took that with an eye roll because, duh! But oh my word do they ever grow up fast, one minute you are Googling tips for teething, and the next you are making a dentist appointment. One minute you are breastfeeding, the next you are cutting the crust off a sandwich. It s amazing the things you miss, I almost cried when I realised that Aidy is now completely potty trained. I still haven t taken his changing table out of his room because I don t even know how to process the need for a big boy room . This is such an odd age, still so much baby but so much big kid. I now find myself savouring the little things. If he wants me to carry him I do because it could very likely be the last time he asks. If he asks me to cuddle up and watch Hotel Transalvania I will change my plans to accommodate him because I never know when I will become soooo boring instead of his best friend . Watching them grow up is magical, amazing, but oh so bitter sweet What do you miss the most about your babies being babies? See more from Eleanor at Just Ella Bella &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share