Covert task team officers accused of leaking inside information to gangsters, writes Gareth Wilson. Members of a covert police task team in the Bay have been accused of leaking top secret information gathered through cellphone tapping to criminal gangs. Tape recordings of those involved allegedly show that a number of police officials are on criminals payrolls . Two people one a crime intelligence operative have been arrested and have appeared in court, with the case provisionally removed from the court roll. The allegations paint a picture of officials selling classified information to criminals so they stay one step ahead of police and rival gangs. Sources close to the investigation say the tip-offs were uncovered after a counter-intelligence operation was put in place following a string of failed anti-crime initiatives. Suspicions were raised after officials noted criminals seemed to have inside information, leading police to tap the phones of their own colleagues. While national police spokeswoman Major-General Sally de Beer admitted an investigation was ongoing, she refused to answer specific questions about the tapes, those involved or why the information had been classified. A number of prosecuting authority officials, who are not being named as they are prohibited from speaking to the media, confirmed the case, but police lashed out claiming a distortion of facts while refusing to clarify what this means. The task team whose members were accused of leaking information was part of a covert operation aimed at clamping down on syndicates and gangs. As per procedure, information gathered was sent to crime intelligence and the Hawks. At the time of the breach, a crime intelligence team and the Hawks based at the Port Elizabeth organised crime offices were working hand-in-hand. For the full story read Weekend Post, or get the complete newspaper, including comics, classifieds, crosswords and back editions in our e-Edition. &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share