IN SWING: Getting ready for the Links Festival of Golf at the Humewood Golf Club are, from left, Kirsty Munna, Andrew McLean and Brendon Timm Picture: FREDLIN ADRIAAN It is once again that time of the year for the annual Links Festival of Golf and organisers hope to attract 1 000 golfers to the event this year. The festival will take place at the Humewood Golf Club from this Sunday to next Saturday (April 23 to 29). This year s event is sponsored by Land Rover Eastern Cape for the first time, and the organisers have set various daily competitions for golfers. Humewood Golf Club manager Andrew McLean said while the main purpose of the festival was to raise funds for the club, it also offered non-members a special opportunity to play at their wonderful course. Asked if they had a specific amount that they would like to raise this year, McLean replied: Not really, but we look to improve year on year. Last year we had 998 people through the course and we certainly would like to strive at least for 1 000 [this year]. Having Land Rover Eastern Cape on board gives us the ability to give something extra to the people who are playing in terms of prizes and fun events. We are going to have a ride and drive. People who play here will get an opportunity to drive one of these wonderful vehicles around our gold course and have some fun. This year we will be able to give a little more to the people because of the kind sponsorship of Land Rover. McLean said the ride and drive track would in no way impact on the golf action, having being created well away from the course. Golfers who take the opportunity to drive one of the Land Rover vehicles will be placed in a lucky draw, with the winner receiving a weekend away for two at a luxury resort. There will also be a major prize for the first player to register a hole in one, while the daily sponsored competitions will offer attractive incentives. Golfers will pay R150 for the morning competitions and R170 in the afternoons. We believe this should attract the golfers both in our region and from further afield as they get the chance for a true links experience. Our greens staff have been working extremely hard and the course is in excellent condition for the festival, McLean said. We are hoping for good weather. Weather has a massive effect. People don t play in bad weather. McLean said the festival was open to anyone keen for a round of links golf, with different formats providing opportunities for golfers of all levels. The competition days and formats are: Sunday, April 23: Alliance Monday, April 24: 4BBB Stableford Tuesday, April 25: 4BBB Bonus Bogey (morning), ladies competition Wednesday, April 26: Individual Stableford Thursday, April 27: 4BBB Alliance (coloured ball) Friday, April 28: 4BBB Stableford Saturday, April 29: 4BBB Stableford Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share