The political events of the past few days have left a nation reeling. President Jacob Zuma s dastardly actions under cover of darkness on Thursday cast a pall so choking on this land that some in their fear have likened the moment to the conception of a dictatorship. There is more than enough cause to have a sense of dread going forward should Zuma continue his ruthless acts of self-preservation. Those who have called him stupid in the past profoundly underestimated the man. He has removed the sharpest of the thorns from his side through an entirely self-serving cabinet purge and his cunning consolidation of power could prove him unstoppable. The feared capture of state resources and the compromising of our crown jewel, the Treasury, are inching ever closer. The Guptas must be rubbing their hands with glee. But, while many have likened the pervading sense of despair to a brutal hangover following an all-night bender, the feelings of fragility and anxiety are being replaced with defiance and resolve. Channelling the spirit of late struggle stalwart Ahmed Kathrada, who would have been aghast at Zuma s actions, ousted finance minister Pravin Gordhan called on ordinary South Africans at Uncle Kathy s memorial on Saturday to organise themselves and challenge the status quo. Many are answering the call. Around the country mass protests are being planned, both by opposition parties and by political structures affiliated to the ANC, to pressure the president into stepping down. But it seems unlikely he will go willingly. Instead, the Teflon man will do his damndest to cling on at least until his term as ANC president ends in December. All the while there is the likelihood of inflicting even more harm on our economy, our international reputation and the fortunes of ordinary South Africans. Top ANC leaders, alliance partners and even Zuma s deputy, Cyril Ramaphosa, are rebelling against the one-man wrecking ball. We are indeed at a defining moment in South Africa s history. But will the prevailing sense of outrage be enough to catapult us out of our apathy and into action? Only time will tell. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share