Stuart Baxter Picture: VELI NHLAPO Stuart Baxter has allegedly told the SA Football Association (Safa) that he will accept the Bafana Bafana coaching job, on condition that his son is appointed as national team goalkeeper coach. Insiders said the Briton had agreed to personal terms of a salary, believed to be in the region of R1-million a month, for his second stint with the senior national team. But his acceptance of the job is believed to be on condition that his son Lee becomes the goalkeeper coach of the national team. The insiders said Safa officials were initially reluctant to accede to Baxter s demand of working with his son for fear of public condemnation. But it seems they have given in to the stipulation as Baxter is set to be announced as new Bafana coach this week. Safa have struggled to pin down a coach since the beginning of the year and attempts to secure Mozambique-born Carlos Queiroz Frenchman Herv Renard and Belgian Hugo Broos have all failed. The failure to find a replacement four months after Ephraim Shakes Mashaba s sacking has put Safa under tremendous pressure from the public and this has seemingly swung the pendulum in Baxter s favour. Safa s reluctance is believed to stem from the fact that Lee Baxter does not have a proven track record of working at national team level where the stakes are a lot higher. Goalkeeper coaching is a highly specialised field and Safa s worry is based on the kind of impact he could have on the experienced keepers in the national team especially Bafana No 1 Itumeleng Khune and Darren Keet. Baxter jnr spent time at Super Sport United as goalkeeper coach last season and he also worked with his father in the same capacity at AIK in Sweden and at Genclerbirligi in Turkey. SuperSport United fitness trainer Joshua Smith will also join the national team. The Briton arrived with Smith at the big club at the beginning of last year, when he took over the coaching reins from Gordon Igesund. The new Bafana Bafana coach is expected to be announced today or tomorrow. Safa s communications head Dominic Chimhavi did not respond to text messages requesting comment on the matter yesterday. Baxter s agent Steve Kapulschnik was also not available for comment. But BidVest Wits coach Gavin Hunt has no doubt in his mind that Baxter is headed to the Bafana seat. Hunt said he had never been approached by anyone at Safa House about the Bafana job and he did not expect to receive such a phone call any time soon as the position has already been filled by Baxter. They [Safa] can t call me, can they? They ve got Baxter already, haven t they? Hunt said in his trademark forthright manner. They have made their decision. They have tried to get three or four coaches and they didn t get them. United let the cat out of the bag a couple of days ago when they announced that the club had given Safa permission to engage Baxter. So they [Safa] are taking Stuart and I wish him well and good luck Hunt said. Obviously they [SuperSport United] have made a comment and they have come out and they have said what they have said. Mashaba was fired for gross misconduct and violation of the Safa communications policy. He still had a year left on his contract which was to run until the end of the 2018 Russia World Cup in July next year and he is challenging his dismissal at the Commission for Conciliation Mediation and Arbitration. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share