For commenting on a HeraldLIVE Facebook status marking 200 000 likes , The Herald reader Jenalee Lock has won a night for two at the five-star Radisson Blu Hotel in Summerstrand. The prize includes a gourmet meal to the value of R500 from the Radisson Blu s Tabu restaurant, breakfast and a Camelot Spa voucher. The young mum of two toddlers &#8211; aged two and three said she had entered to surprise my grandparents with a well-deserved weekend away . I am so excited, and have been praying to win! Lock, 20, said. Bay stay-at-home mother Lock was one of more than 1 000 who commented on The Herald s Facebook status when the newspaper broke through 200 000 likes on the social network on April 21. The image with the post &#8211; a panoramic 360 degree photograph taken at Shark Rock Pier &#8211; proved popular with readers, with 248 shares. The social media post asked friends to comment on what they most loved about the city. This is what Lock had to say: What I love about Port Elizabeth, is that as much as we have racial divides, we have people who still stand together, united as one. I have two very little, little girls and bringing them up in a city, where many people accept each other&#8217;s race, cultures and traditions excites me to show them that no one is born hating someone else. We love the history that is both in and surrounds Port Elizabeth, learning more and more as the days go by. The beaches are an extra bonus, to be out in the sun, having a whole lot of fun, the sand in between a person&#8217;s toes, running around, laughing, bonding as a family along the coast. This is what I love most about Port Elizabeth: the people, the different cultures, the unity, the ocean, the fact that it is my city! And it still attracts tourists from near and far, to see the beautiful city, I call MY home. I have entered this competition, to try win it to give the prize to my grandparents. They are elderly and deserve a break away. Lock fetched her prize voucher from the Radisson Blu Hotel today from deputy general manager Mark Huppelschoten. She said her grandparents Sue and Danny Lock were looking forward to taking up the prize. Jenalee Lock wins a stay at the Radisson Blu Hotel in Summerstrand from deputy general manager Mark Huppelschoten for taking part in The Herald&#8217;s 200K Facebook competition. Visit our website for the report (link in bio) #MyHeraldLIVE #HeraldLIVE #radissonblu #winner #portelizabeth #nelsonmandelabay #sharethebay A post shared by My Herald Live (@myheraldlive) on Apr 26, 2017 at 7:25am PDT Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share