South Africa celebrates Freedom Day on April 27, which is a perfect time to enjoy a leisurely breakfast. Try one or more of these rather sophisticated options by Flora Sneddon, a finalist on the Great British Bake Off and now a columnist at the Daily Telegraph. While the fruity French toast must be eaten immediately, the seedy granola with dark chocolate will keep for up to two months. &nbsp; Fruity French toast Picture: Lisa Linder Fruity French Toast Serves two. Ingredients 2 large eggs 100ml whole milk tsp freshly grated nutmeg, plus extra for serving 30g caster sugar 4 (thick) slices of brioche Knob of butter 50g cr me fra che Pomegranate seeds, and/or sliced strawberries when in season, to serve 30g flaked almonds, toasted Method In a wide dish, beat the eggs, milk, nutmeg and sugar together until well combined. Add the brioche slices and turn them over, allowing each slice to absorb the mixture on both sides. If the bread is stale, leave a little longer to soften. In a large frying pan melt a knob of butter over a medium-high heat. Once melted, add two slices of the soaked brioche to the pan and cook for two minutes on each side or until golden brown. Set aside and repeat with the other two. Stack a couple of pieces of brioche on a plate. Add a dollop of cr me fra che then scatter with the fruit and flaked almonds. Grate a little nutmeg on the top. Serve immediately. &nbsp; Seedy granola with dark chocolate Picture: Lisa Linder Seedy granola with dark chocolate Flora advises you serve this granola with a good dollop of yogurt, a wee splash of milk and plenty of blueberries. If you are feeling extra naughty you can add some chocolate curls on top. ? It makes 750g. Ingredients A little sunflower oil, for greasing 100ml maple syrup 100ml runny honey 3 tbsp coconut oil, in liquid form 300g rolled oats 100g mixed seeds 50g pumpkin seeds 50g ground almonds (omit for more seeds if nuts are an issue) 1 tsp cocoa powder 100g dark chocolate 50g coconut flakes Method Preheat the oven to 160C. Grease a deep baking tray with a little sunflower oil. In a bowl, stir together all of the ingredients except for the chocolate and coconut flakes. Make sure everything is well coated before tipping in to the tray. Spread all over but don t worry if there are a few lumps. Bake for 10 minutes before removing and stirring well to stop uneven colouring. Return to the oven for a further five to 10 minutes. You want it to be golden but still soft, as it crisps up during cooling. Chop the chocolate into little chunks. Once the granola is out of the oven, stir through the coconut flakes. Sprinkle the chocolate evenly over the top but do not stir as it will melt immediately. Set aside to cool completely, until the chocolate has solidified again. Transfer into an airtight glass jar or plastic tub and store for up to two months. * Gatherings, Flora s debut cookbook is published by Mitchell Beazley, an imprint of the Octopus Publishing Group. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share