Eleanor Douglas-Meyers is a crafty mom from Uitenhage who writes about DIY, parenting, natural hair care, fashion, food and fun on her blog Just Ella Bella. &nbsp; &nbsp; It s school holidays, it is also the start of winter and the flu season is rearing its ugly head. There is nothing like sick, bored kids so I came up with a DIY to address both: coloured eucalyptus lentils for sensory play and help with stuffy noses. Aidan has always had issues with his sinuses he is almost always a little stuffy. And because I don t want to keep plying him with drugs, I often use homeopathic remedies to help ease his symptoms a little. The smell of eucalyptus oil is great for this, so I put a few drops on his pillow at bed time. Last year I realised adding it to his play dough worked wonders as he could play and get better at the same time. With this in mind, I came up with a fun sensory play way to ease his stuffy nose: coloured eucalyptus lentils! I usually do this with rice but I decided to do something a little different and use the lentils which for some unknown reason we have loads of. Coloured Eucalyptus Lentils WHAT YOU NEED 1 cup dried lentils food colouring zip lock bags eucalyptus oil WHAT YOU DO Scoop some dried lentils into your packets (I used a third of a cup in each packet) Put some food colouring into each bag (I used 2.5ml but you can be the judge and add more for a more vibrant colour) Rub the packet to distribute colour Then put in a few drops of the essential oil (please do colouring first, I messed up by putting the colour in oil first and the oil kept the colour from sticking as well as I had hoped) Rub the packet again. Lay lentils out on a piece of paper and leave to dry. Once dry, you can give it a sniff and decide whether you need more oil or just hand it to your kid to play. If you do add more oil, don t forget to let it dry again. See more from Eleanor at justellabella.co.za. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share