Chippa United head coach Dan Malesela File picture: Richard Huggard/Gallo Images Chippa coach placed on special leave while settlement package is finalised It seems that Chippa United coach Dan Malesela has been given the boot after he confirmed that he has been placed on special leave, just days before a key Premier Soccer League fixture tomorrow. The Chilli Boys play Orlando Pirates in a crucial league fixture at the Orlando Stadium (8.15pm). Assistant coach Mbuyiselo Sambu is expected to be in the hot seat against the Soweto giants. The news comes after a string of poor results by Chippa with their most recent outcome being a 3-2 loss against Maritzburg United on Tuesday. Chippa have not won a league match in nine outings and are sliding closer to the relegation zone. Having confirmed that he had been placed on special leave, Malesela said he was not surprised by the news. Yes, I have been placed on special leave by the club. I was angry on Wednesday, today [yesterday] I am very disappointed, he said. I really thought I would be able to finish this season, but it [the news] was not surprising, nothing surprises me at all. The former Mamelodi Sundowns defender is still in Port Elizabeth but said he would go back home to Pretoria tomorrow. My plan is to sit at home, I am on leave. I can t sit in PE and do nothing. Malesela vacates his position at a crucial time as the team is still fighting to stay clear of relegation. Plus, there is still the Nedbank Cup semifinal coming up next month. I think we would have overcome that position on the log. I don t think the club will be relegated, Malesela said. As people, sometimes we react and I don t blame anybody. Sometimes when you make serious decisions you need to be very wise and not go with feelings. Also, when you advise people you need to advise them wisely. I just think there are a lot of people, not in all clubs, who like seeing people go. I don t know why. I think we always think that the solution is to fire. Meanwhile, Malesela s representative, Tim Sukazi, said Chippa would terminate the coach s contract within the next 24 hours. The club gave him a letter asking him to take leave which obviously is leading to the actual termination of his contract Sukazi said. We know the club knows. The reason they did it that way was because yesterday [Wednesday] we couldn t get into doing a settlement agreement and finalising the necessary paperwork. I was out with my work and Chippa [club chairman Siviwe Mpengesi] was busy. So while that is pending, Dan has been put on leave and we expect to conclude the settlement agreement and sign it within the next 24 hours. So he s out. Chippa s communication and marketing manager, Luthando Zibeko, said he had not received any official word yet. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share