The building where an internet cafe was allegedly used as a front for a gambling joint Twists aplenty in gambling den probe A seedy gambling den in Grahamstown has been linked to alleged wife killer Christopher Panayiotou, his father and two other key players in the sensational murder trial. Allegations of how an internet cafe was used as a front for an illegal gambling joint and how thousands of rands in cash was transported off the premises as often as once a week emerged in documents before the Grahamstown High Court. The Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU) launched an application to have what they say is the proceeds of crime forfeited to the state. Court papers spell out how Christopher, 30, his father, Costa, a former PE bank manager and the friend who wiped Christopher s phone clean after Jayde s murder in April 2015 allegedly played a role in the operation from behind the scenes. At all times the Panayiotous, IT expert Donovan Vosloo and his father, Phillip, ensured their hands were clean. Christopher Panayiotou File picture: Eugene Coetzee While young Grahamstown resident Bulelani Gaqa is listed as the sole director of Ruskopoint (Pty) Ltd, trading as The Old Mill Gaming Centre, his supposed employee said she had never even heard of him. Contacted for comment yesterday, Gaqa surprisingly referred all questions to Phillip Vosloo. Court documents allege that a month before the police swooped on the grungy building in Dundas Road, confiscating cash and computers a raid which was later found by a court to be unlawful Donovan Vosloo had allegedly adapted the computers to incorporate the services of an internet cafe. Employee Mevelyn Williams, who was arrested amid the chaos of the raid on February 23 last year, said in the beginning Donovan travelled to Grahamstown every Sunday to collect the proceeds, ranging from R10 000 to R30 000 a week. At a later stage, he started collecting the cash on a biweekly basis, and thereafter collection was done sporadically, she claimed. Donovan said yesterday that there were many rumours circulating. He then referred questions to attorney Basil Vardakos. Vardakos said: The judicial process shall be undermined if the Vosloos replied to the incriminating questions that you have forwarded to them while the matter is sub judice. For the full story read Weekend Post, or get the complete newspaper, including comics, classifieds, crosswords and back editions in our e-Edition. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share