BIG ONSLAUGHT: Westering High s Azukiwe Sigcu is tackled by Otto du Plessis players during their schools match at Westering at the weekend Picture: FREDLIN ADRIAAN Algoa Park side score 16 points in second half for deserved win Otto du Plessis overcame a first-half deficit to rally and beat hosts Westering 23-12 in an entertaining schools rugby fixture on Saturday. Westering started the better of the two teams and quickly ran up a 12-0 lead which was reduced by seven points shortly before the break. The second half was closely contested but it was Otto who managed to convert opportunities when they presented themselves. The Algoa Park side scored 16 unanswered points in the second half to register a deserved win. Westering got the ball rolling after four minutes when centre Sisanda Matlali crashed over midway out. Then home team fullback Sim Jekwa produced the try of the game after 18 minutes as he jinxed his way through the Otto defence at pace from within his own half to score a wonderful try which was converted by flyhalf Baphelele Pango. Otto finally got on the scoreboard just before the half-hour when sustained pressure saw scrumhalf Jusain Louwrens score. He converted his own try and then slotted two penalties after the break for his side to take a 13-12 lead after 50 minutes. A try from left-wing Juandre Olivier saw Otto edge further ahead and the game was in the balance until shortly before the final whistle. Westering attacked Otto searching for the match-winning try and conversion but a brilliant breakaway by Otto flank and captain Armand Olivier eventually saw No 8 Shaun-Ray Beauzec secure the win with a late try. DANIEL Pienaar Technical High School and Framesby took their time to get going on a hot afternoon in Uitenhage on Saturday. Daniel Pienaar were leading 9-6 after a dull first half that saw no tries. The match came alive in the second half, with Framesby just getting over the line to win 26-19. The match turned into a thriller that could have gone either way. With time up on the clock it was the Framesby tighthead prop Rikus Smith who forced his way over the try line for the winning points. The Port Elizabeth visitors started the second half like a house on fire and scored 13 unanswered points to make the score 19-9. Poor discipline by Framesby brought DP back into the game. They received two yellow cards in the match and were lucky to escape a third. Framesby only conceded three points when Izak Marais was carded in the first half, but Desmick Kleinbooi s yellow in the second half proved more costly. DP scored a try straight after this yellow card, followed by a penalty for a high tackle. With the scores level at 19-19, DP knocked the ball on from the following kickoff and Smith got over to score after the Framesby boys had a few attempts at the line. There is still a lot of work that awaits these two sides. The ball retention was poor and the back line play on attack disappointing. The kicking at goal was also a problem, with DP missing five penalty attempts and a drop kick. Framesby were off target with a penalty, a drop and two conversions. Smith, Andr Gerber (scrumhalf) and Grayson Ditlow (wing) scored tries for Framesby. Grassie van Rensburg added three penalties and a conversion. Replacement winger Tiaan Lange scored a try for DP. Flyhalf Dylan le Roux contributed the rest of the points with a conversion, three penalties and a sensational drop goal. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share