TITLE RETAINED: Ben Hoffman, of the US, celebrates as he crosses the line to win the 2017 Ironman event in a time of 7:58.39 Picture: EUGENE COETZEE American breaks eight-hour barrier for back-to-back Ironman African victories Thousands of spectators took the scorching weather in their stride yesterday to cheer on more than 2 000 die-hard endurance athletes in the 13th Standard Bank Ironman African Championship. Organisers said the weather was the cherry on top for another successful event, that saw much of Marine Drive buzzing with excited fans until nightfall. US professional athlete Ben Hoffman successfully defended his Ironman African Championship title, finishing in just under eight hours. The first woman home was Ironman World Championship winner Daniela Ryf, from Switzerland. TOP WOMAN: Switzerland s Daniela Ryf powers her way to victory in the women s race Picture: EUGENE COETZEE Bay supporter and keen athlete Ashwell Isaacs, 32, said the event had motivated him to enter next year s gruelling triathlon. This [Ironman] is inspiring just seeing ordinary people doing great stuff, Isaacs said. I did the half Ironman in East London this year, but I was not ready yet to do the full Ironman. Next year definitely, with a lot of training, I will do it. Three high-spirited East London friends, dressed in striped Where s Wally outfits, were dancing and cheering the athletes on. This is fantastic weather, and we are so emotional and excited, one of them, Gareth Hartmann, said. Ironman managing director Keith Bowler said he was happy the main event had gone well. This course is regarded as one of the best in the world, Bowler said. [Its success] basically is the people of Nelson Mandela Bay, who come out in full force until the night. This event is embraced by the city and it gets bigger and better every year. The only blot on the event was the injury of a woman spectator, who tripped in the road opposite the Marine Hotel and was hit by an oncoming Ironman cyclist. She was reportedly taken to a hospital by medical services, but this could not be confirmed. Ironman spokesman Michael Flanagan said a medical report on the Ironman as a whole would be released today. There was also a fun atmosphere on Saturday during the corporate challenge and Spur Ironkids. In the corporate challenge, 420 athletes took part in the 380m swim, 18km cycle and 4.2km run. The first team home was Sport Contact, one of several teams from Continental Tyre SA, in just under 45 minutes. Wynand Minnie, of team Afrox, said: This week, I think we will have a few days sick leave. The guys will have pains in muscles they didn t think they had. There were 1 000 participants in the Ironkids event, which consisted of a 100m swim and 1.2km run. The enthusiasm shown by the little ones at the McArthur pool start was, for many, the day s highlight. Richard Moss, 7, of Johannesburg, said the race was a tough one. I am glad it s finally over, he said. So many people tried to get past me and I blocked them. I have to take this medal to school to show everyone. UNITED State professional triathlete Ben Hoffman successfully defended his Ironman African Championship title, while Ironman World Championship winner Daniela Ryf took the honours in the women s race yesterday at Hobie Beach in Summerstrand. Hoffman crossed the finish line just under eight hours with a time of 7hr 58min 39sec, which was an improvement on his time of 8:13:20 last year. Ryf finished in 8:47:01. Hoffman was behind in the swim and cycle legs, but went all out on the run. He was given a hard time by second-placed German Nils Frommhold, who finished nearly a minute behind him. Frommhold, who won the race in 2014, clocked a time of 7:59:29. Kyle Buckingham was the first South African to cross the finish line. He finished in fourth place, a major improvement from his 11th position last year. It may have looked like it was an easy second victory for me, but there is no easy Ironman, Hoffman said. This course is challenging. I think the time was deceptive. I was surprised how fast I went, but I felt good. I came here well prepared. It was a major goal of mine to try and defend the title. I really love the race here. I wanted to come back and show the community that I was ready to defend the title. It was a special day. I just did my planning. I rode within myself and stayed in control and did well on the run. I tried to challenge myself. I wanted to find what I could do on the day. I really pushed the pace and, obviously, Nils was behind me. He never went away, Hoffman said. The 33-year-old American said this was the first time he had won an Ironman title twice in a row. This is my sixth Ironman win now and this is the first time I successfully defended an Ironman title, Hoffman said. He had previously tried to defend titles but without success, he said. I came second a couple of times. It s really hard to defend an Ironman title and to do it at a regional championship against a field of this calibre is extra special. Plus to do it under eight hours is the cherry on top, he said. Ahead of the race, Swiss women s winner Ryf said she would be happy with just finishing the race, but the 29-year-old did more than that. She clinched her first African championship yesterday. Ryf said she did not expect to win, because she went into the competition with a back injury. I was very unsure if I could finish the race, because I pulled something in my back about 10 days ago, she said. I could barely train. To be able to come out with such a performance is incredible. I was hurting in the swim. I could not really swim properly, so I just tried to not go too hard. On the bike it was the same. It was not easy, but eventually I was able to turn things around and get the body working. The run was very good. I am very glad that my body held it so well and I could show such a good performance. The crowd on the run course really motivate the competitors. They almost push you through the course. It s been a great experience and I am very happy that I came here to South Africa, Ryf said. The leading results: Men: Ben Hoffman 7:58:39 Nils Frommhold 7:59:29 David McNamee 8:07:30 Kyle Buckingham 8:08:57 Jan van Berkel 8:12:34 Women: Daniela Ryf 8:47:01 Kaisa Lehtonen 8:52:25 Susie Cheetham 9:04:48 Astrid Stienen 9:12:10 Gurutze Frades 9:13:04 Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share