Vuyo Zitumane Picture: Supplied Acting corporate services head accuses deputy mayor of making advances to her It is war. Vuyo Zitumane has broken her silence with explosive suggestions that Nelson Mandela Bay deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani is gunning for her because she rejected his advances three times. I refused to avail myself on his three attempts [to tell] me that he is available to me (a happily married woman) 24 hours a day, Zitumane said yesterday. The fightback by the municipality s acting corporate services head includes claims that Bobani tried to get her to recall two suspended officials and authorise irregular payments to two companies. Adding to the bombshell allegations, Zitumane who described Bobani as an unhappy, wounded person said that despite subsequently calling her incompetent, he had encouraged her three times to apply for the city manager position as his preferred choice as well as the chief operating officer post. It is worth mentioning I had to block his calls on my cellphone, she said. Evidence relating to all these matters will be provided at an appropriate platform and time. The list is endless. The Herald reported yesterday that she was preparing to sue Bobani for defamation after he allegedly called her corrupt on several occasions. Deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani has rejected the allegations against him by Vuyo Zitumane Picture: Eugene Coetzee Bobani has laughed off the claims, denying outright that he had a personal vendetta against Zitumane. I can t do that, I am a happily married man, he said. If that were true, why then does she not provide the recording of that conversation because any officials in the metro who meet with me record me? A double-punch for the deputy mayor came when city manager Johann Mettler said those involved in anti-graft work would inevitably be undermined by the beneficiaries of patronage and corruption . Mettler said: Rest assured that nothing will deter us in our vigorous pursuit of corrupt persons. Bobani has spoken out openly about his feelings towards Mettler and Zitumane, taking issue particularly with their appointments. He tried at the last council meeting to get them out of the institution and failed. He said he would table a motion at the next council meeting for them to be suspended. Things came to a head yesterday when he opened four corruption cases at the Humewood police station. He alleged that Zitumane and Mettler had entered into what he termed dubious contracts . For the full story read The Herald, or get the complete newspaper, including comics, classifieds, crosswords and back editions in our e-Edition. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share