Producers urge delay in enactment of new law The Beverage Association of South Africa (BevSA), which represents the country s major soft drink, fruit juice and other beverage producers, has not given up its bitter struggle against the introduction of a sugar tax. It has now urged the government to pause the process of introducing the new tax legislation. This emerged yesterday and follows BevSA s submission of its response to the new rate (sugar tax) in the Draft Rates and Monetary Amounts and Amendment of Revenue Bill lodged on Friday. The new tax, or health promotion levy, is to be enacted through the Rates and Monetary Amounts and Amendment of Revenue Laws Bill. Proposals to introduce a sugar tax on all sugar sweetened beverages (SSBs) caused a major outcry from beverage producers, who claimed that the tax would have a devastating impact on the industry, employment and the economy. The industry has also maintained that a sugar tax discriminates against the beverage industry and would not impact on obesity in the country, which government has asserted is the reason for the introduction of the tax. The tax was officially announced by former finance minister Pravin Gordhan in his February budget speech, during which it was also revealed that the rate at which the tax was to be charged would be 2.1 cents per gram of sugar as opposed to the 2.29 cents per gram originally anticipated. In its latest reaction to developments around the implementation of the tax, BevSA said yesterday that while it welcomed the revised sugar tax rates, the industry body maintains its concerns about the negative economic impact and limited health gains as a result of the new tax. The organisation said these concerns, along with its assertions that baseline studies used by the government to determine the tax were inadequate, had formed part of their submission on the matter to the national Treasury. The levy targets just 3% of the average South African s daily calorific intake and, as proposed, will have no discernible impact on obesity reducing the average daily intake of South Africans by just three to four calories per day, BevSA executive director Mapule Ncanywa said. She said the Nedlac and parliamentary processes now in motion towards implementation of the law provided an opportunity for all interested parties to engage and develop an effective anti-obesity solution that would not lead to job losses. Surely such a win-win as a South African solution should be given an opportunity. To do this, full consultation across unions, civil society, government and business is required and more information and research would assist such deliberation. We urge the government to pause legislative action until such research is available and such engagement and consultation processes have run their course. We maintain that a total dietary study is absolutely necessary to clarify the key causes of obesity in South Africa and to establish a benchmark against which future improvements can be ascertained. Ncanywa said that while BevSA members were committed to reducing the sugar content of their products, they had requested to be given a reasonable amount of time to implement their reductions prior to the introduction of the tax. Responding further yesterday, BevSA spokesman Tshepo Marumule said: BevSA has not given up and we will continue to engage with government and all other relevant stakeholders to find better alternative ways of combating obesity in South Africa without adverse unintended consequences. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share