Wary head coach Deon Davids is expecting the Southern Kings to face tough defensive challenges from solid set pieces on their Australian Super Rugby tour. The Kings kick off their visit to Australia with what could be a season defining clash against a struggling Western Force team in Perth on Sunday (kickoff 8.05am). So far, the Force have only managed to win one of their opening five matches and are one of the teams facing the cut if Super Rugby bosses decide to trim the league next year. The Kings have leaked 20 tries in their opening five games and Davids will demand much sharper defence against inventive Australian opposition. The Australian teams bring different challenges from good set pieces, Davids said. They also have creative launches from set pieces. The Australians also have tall outside backs who execute their plans with pace and excellent running lines, and who also understand the kicking game very well. Davids said his team would prepare for the Perth clash in the same way as they had for their earlier games. We will approach it as any other game, with the emphasis on executing better in the areas that were of concern against the Lions. We want to ensure that we rectify the lessons learnt in the previous five games, and that we make much better use of the opportunities that might come our way. We would love to earn some points on this tour. In their last game, the Force went down fighting at Eden Park when the Blues won 24-15. Force captain Matt Hodgson said he was proud of his team s effort but disappointed in how they allowed the Blues to counter attack them. We aren t happy with those defensive lapses from a long way out. We let them score three longrange tries, but there were some good signs. Mentally, we dropped off a bit in the first half and allowed them to get back in the game when we went down a man and they made the most of that momentum, Hodgson said. After their game against the Force, the Kings will have matches against the Reds in Brisbane (April 15) and the Waratahs in Sydney on April 21. The Kings touring squad is: Forwards: Props: Chris Heiberg, Schalk van der Merwe, Dayan van der Westhuizen, Justin Forwood, Ross Geldenhuys Hookers: Kurt Haupt, Martin Bezuidenhout, Michael Willemse Locks: Irne Herbst, Mzwanele Zito, Wilhelm van der Sluys Loose forwards: Andisa Ntsila, Chris Cloete, Ruaan Lerm Utility forward: Tyler Paul Backline: Scrumhalfs: Ricky Schroeder, Johan Steyn, Louis Schreuder Flyhalfs: Lionel Cronje, Pieter-Steyn de Wet Wings: Makazole Mapimpi, Yaw Penxe Centres: Berton Klaasen, Waylon Murray Fullback: Malcolm Jaer Utility backs: Luzuko Vulindlu, Masixole Banda Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share