SPONSORED | Most people think winning the lottery and getting struck by lightning are once-in-a-lifetime events. While this may mostly be true, some people have had overwhelming luck in unbelievable situations and it even happened to them more than once. Feeling extra lucky these days? Read these stories about multiple lottery winners and start playing the world s biggest lotteries with your lucky numbers on theLotter! &nbsp; Winning the lottery d j vu? Constance Carpenito of the Boston area in the US won $1-million after buying an instant lottery ticket in 1996. The game she played was called Diamond Millionaire and it made her a double millionaire when in November 2015, she bought another winning ticket from the same Stop &amp; Shop corner store in Stoneham, Massachusetts, her hometown. She also won $20,000 with another ticket bought from the same shop. Carpenito is not only loyal to her local store but also a loyal lottery player she buys about $20-worth of tickets each week. This goes to show you can t win if you don t play! Second time s a charm &#8220;It&#8217;s simply incredible. The odds of him winning twice were galactic. These were the words used by Thembi Tulwana, spokesman for South African lottery operator Gidani, to describe the luck of a South African man who won the lottery for the second time. After having scooped R11-million 10 years before, he hit the PowerBall jackpot in November 2009. This brought him an extra R30-million. Second time s a charm, as they say. &nbsp; &nbsp; One can have it all Peter McCathie of Nova Scotia may be both the unluckiest and luckiest man in Canada, as he has been both struck by lightning and won the lottery. He was struck by lightning at the age of 14 while on a boat trip. I was trying to lock the boat up. It was a very sunny day, there was one big, white cloud in the sky, and the lightning bolt came through the trees and hit me, he said during an interview with CTV Atlantic. In an even weirder twist, McCathie isn t the only person in his family to have had a close encounter with lightning. His daughter was working in Manitoba as a wilderness guide when she was struck by lightning. Luckily, she also survived the ordeal. Remarkably, she was also locking up boats when she was struck. The odds of getting struck by lightning are a little less than one in a million. While they were both lucky to survive, it was definitely time for McCathie s luck to change for the better. For the past year, he and one of his coworkers, Diane Miller, have bought lottery tickets together. He says they never expected to win anything, but once again luck was on his side. On Monday July 20, the two coworkers walked into the Atlantic Lottery offices and presented their winning Lotto 6/49 ticket worth a phenomenal $1-million. The odds of winning Lotto 6/49 are just shy of one in 14-million. Sophie Leger, a mathematics professor at the University of Moncton, calculated the odds of McCathie&#8217;s lucky life events: his lottery win along with the lightning strikes incurred by him and his daughter. All in all, McCathie is the one man in 2.6-trillion. &nbsp; Playing the lottery a lucky hobby During the Yukon gold rush of the late 1890s, many fortune hunters came through Fort Smith in Canada s Northwest Territories in search of their pot of gold. A century later, one resident of this sleepy town with a population of fewer than 3,000 won her fortune not in gold, but through two winning Canada Lotto 6/49 tickets. In February 2011, Ann Lepine won an incredible C$7.6-million jackpot. Then, in 2007, her husband at the time, Barkley Heron, bought a Lotto 6/49 ticket that won C$11.3-million. Lepine has said she cannot explain her luck she s even conquered Las Vegas, winning $25,000 in casino slots. Perhaps her luck has something to do with the fact that playing the lottery is her biggest hobby, as she spends about C$300 on lottery tickets each week. The family that plays together, stays together and WINS too Three members of the Oksnes family from Austevoll, Norway, have won huge jackpots from their country s national lottery. Hege Jeanette Oksnes thinks their luck has something to do with her children. Her father, Leif, won SEK4.2-million ($486,800) in 2006. One day later, Hege gave birth to her first child. Then, three years later, Hege herself won SEK8.2-million, one day before her second child was born. Finally, her brother Tord won SEK12.2-million in 2012, a few months after the birth of her third child. There are no plans for a fourth child at present. My husband thinks we have enough money now, Hege told the media. This article was paid for by theLotter. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share