&nbsp; More than 200 000 news hounds have liked The Herald s Facebook page, HeraldLIVE, and now they stand a chance to win a night away for two people, dinner, breakfast and a spa treatment at a top Nelson Mandela Bay hotel. The Herald has teamed up with Radisson Blu to thank loyal followers for their support which saw the page grow to more than 200 000 followers this week, from just 6 000 in 2012. &nbsp; The Herald editor Brett Horner said it was a milestone for our entire news operation and in particular the small but dynamic digital unit which has ensured wonderful audience growth across all our online assets over the years, more so in the last 12 months . A standout feature of The Herald s Facebook page has been the engagement level of followers, meaning we have a growing community of people truly plugged in to the region s most powerful media voice, he said. Much has been made of print circulation and the pressures on that front. But not enough credit is given to the dual work that is done by staff to create a multi-platform environment for our readers and advertisers to get their daily fix of news and entertainment, often on the go and in real time. I want to pay tribute to the team for this achievement and to our community for the support that has allowed us to expand beyond our traditional borders. HeraldLIVE digital editor Dorette de Swardt said it had been a very exciting few years for the digital team and we wanted to make our followers a part of the celebration. It is not only our Facebook page that s grown in leaps and bounds, but our website unique browsers are now averaging more than 700 000 per month . While the HeraldLIVE Facebook page focuses more on breaking stories, hard news and human interest stories, the other social media streams including Instagram and the My HeraldLIVE Facebook page offers beautiful images of the Bay and province, some taken by readers, and lifestyle news. Our focus is, and always will be content. On our digital platforms we bring news to you as it happens, in the form of a Tweet, Facebook post, article, video, audio or pictures, De Swardt said. We have a very active and vibrant digital community and each time someone joins our digital following, they re joining the biggest digital news site in the city and province. The prize: &nbsp; One night stay in a Business Class room for two people, including dinner to the value of R500 in Tabu Restaurant, super buffet breakfast and a R700 Camelot SPA treatment voucher. How you can win: Go to the HeraldLIVE Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/HeraldLIVE/ from 6am on Friday, January 21. Find the post promoting this competition and comment as indicated on the post. The winner will be announced in print and on Facebook on Tuesday 25 April, 2017. Terms &amp; Conditions: The winner will be selected at random from the comments made on the entry post The Herald s Facebook Page. The winner will receive a voucher for a one night stay in a Business Class room at the Radisson Blu in Port Elizabeth for two people, including dinner to the value of R500 in Tabu Restaurant, super buffet breakfast and a R700 Camelot SPA treatment voucher. The voucher is valid until 19 April 2018 and booking is subject to availability. It will be the responsibility of the winner to pay for any extra expenses during their stay. The prize cannot be exchanged for cash or transferred to another individual. &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share