EP Rugby officials will go to the polls at a special general meeting at Cape Recife High School tomorrow to elect a new president after Cheeky Watson resigned following an eight- year term in the hot seat. Though much was achieved under Watson s watch, his reign will be remembered for all the wrong reasons after a cash crisis hit the union and it was placed under administration. Sadly, EP Rugby is no longer the power it once was and the new president will have his hands full getting the union back on its feet. Last month, the Kings were relegated from the Currie Cup Premier Division and there is talk that the Southern Kings could be booted out of Super Rugby. The candidates for the presidential hot seat are George Malgas, Tony McKeever, Stag Mitchell and Andre Rademan, all of whom are highly thought of. Each presidential candidate has been asked to provide a synopsis of their strategic plan for EP Rugby, so voters will have a good idea of what to expect. Initially there were five candidates, but Shaheed Patel withdrew, opting to stand as an additional member. In addition to the candidates for the presidency, nominations were also received for the positions of deputy president, vice-president and those for additional members were also finalised. The EPRU s administration is set to be returned to local hands following the elections. The administrator will hand the union over to the new executive after the elections, SA Rugby appointed EPRU administrator Monde Tabata said. I am very, very excited about this new dawn. The EP constitution will attract good candidates and work is being done on sponsorship. The constitution has been cleaned up and we have aligned it to the SA Rugby constitution and World Rugby principles as well as Sascoc requirements, Tabata said. The full nomination list is: President: Malgas, McKeever, Mitchell, and Rademan. Deputy president: Dennis January, Freddie Makoki, Bantwini Matika, Vernon Stuurman and Ratsela Tala. Vice-president: Chico February, Dennis January, Malgas and Ratsela Tala. Additional: Elroy Augustus, Willie Blundin, Lembede Jantjie, Danie Gouws, Makaya Jack, Phillip Joseph, Cannon Maasdorp, Malgas, Patel, Xolisa Samsa, Christo Thana and Pieter Tee. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share