CUSP OF GREATNESS: South Africa s Chad Le Clos Picture: EPA Chad le Clos took the No 1 world ranking in Durban last night as he unleashed a new strategy to outduel former stablemate Myles Brown and retain his national 200m freestyle crown. Instead of being cautious and racing over the second half, Le Clos attacked from the start, similar to what he did when he won the Olympic silver in Rio last year. By the halfway mark he was a body length in front, before Brown the 2015 champion hit back in the second hundred, closing the gap slightly but not enough to cause the upset of two years ago. Le Clos floated into the wall in 1min 46.84sec, the fastest time in the world so far this year. I didn t want to swim into his race, Le Clos, owner of the 1:45.20 national record, said. I knew that Myles was thinking I would go with him and he would burn me on the third lap, like he does, so I tried to change it up a bit and shake up the tactics. Every year, I come here and we all swim slower in the first 100m because we re all scared to go out, we want to race the race and try win. You can almost feel the tension, it s like the 100m free, he said. I always feels this is the big race because of Myles. You can just feel the tension before that race. His new coach, Italian Andrea di Nino, told him to go out hard, but Le Clos admitted it was hard to execute on home soil. I ve never done that before at nationals because I m always racing the race. It s a different kind of pressure for me, he said. Brown came second in 1:47.55. Both men were inside the 1:47.73 A-qualifying time for the world championships in Budapest in July. So far, only three men have booked their spots the third being Cameron van der Burgh although Swimming SA said it would consider B-qualifying times for young, female or black swimmers. Mariella Venter, 17, won the 100m backstroke in a B-qualifier. Van der Burgh touched in 27.06 in the 50m breaststroke semifinals to equal his best time and move to second in the world rankings behind British star Adam Peaty. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share