Port Elizabeth graphic designer and illustrator Aneesa Loonat won a merit award in the 2016 Sasol New Signatures competition for an installation of fused glass and street money titled Trash The Sasol New Signatures art competition is calling for entries for the 2017 competition. The longest running competition of its kind in South Africa, Sasol New Signatures aims to unearth local artists and promote them to the art-loving public. Held annually in partnership with the Association of Arts Pretoria, the competition is open to all South African artists who are 18 years and older who have not yet held a solo exhibition (a solo exhibition entails a body of work of at least 20 works exhibited in a commercial gallery). Last year s winner, Zyma Amien, will hold her first solo exhibition within the official exhibition later this year. Artists who are working in a contemporary realm with current, cutting-edge issues must consider entering this competition. The artwork is judged and not the colour, age or gender of the artist, said Amien. The artwork should reflect the heartbeat of society. Due to the magnitude and the publicity that the Sasol competition generates, winning grants the artist the opportunity to highlight pertinent issues in public. Port Elizabeth graphic designer and illustrator Aneesa Loonat won a merit award in the 2016 Sasol New Signatures competition for an installation of fused glass and street money titled Trash . This year each merit award carries a prize of R10 000. Artists may submit their artworks in all artistic mediums painting, drawing, printmaking, sculpture, photography, performance art, video and installations. As part of the competition, there will be information sessions taking place across the country from the end of this month. Although Port Elizabeth is not holding one, East London is included. These sessions are to educate emerging artists on how they can produce and submit winning work, contributing to improving the quality of entries every year. There will also be national feedback sessions at the various selection points countrywide. There, artists who have submitted works will have the opportunity to find out from the judges why certain entries were accepted and others not. The intention is to assist aspiring artists to grow and guide them on how they can further better their art. The winner of the Sasol New Signatures art competition will be announced on August 30 after which the winning works will be displayed at the Pretoria Art Museum until October. The winner will receive R100 000 and a solo exhibition at next year s exhibition, with the runner-up winning R25 000 and the five merit award winners receiving R10 000 each. Contemporary, innovative and emerging artists wanting to be discovered are invited to submit their artworks at one of several collection points around the country between 10am and 4pm on June 29 and June 30. The collection point in Port Elizabeth is the Quad Gallery in the faculty of arts on the North Campus of the NMMU School of Art, Music and Design. More information from www.sasolnewsignatures.co.za. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share