The Businesswomen s Association Port Elizabeth Branch is on the lookout for leading women in local business and government to be recognised in its annual Regional Business Achiever Awards. The awards honour the achievements of women entrepreneurs and professionals, along with those in the corporate world and government, and recognise the part that women play in the economy and the life of the city. Not only do the awards give recognition where it is deserved, but they are often an impetus for women to reach even higher, said BWA Port Elizabeth branch chairwoman Michelle Brown. Many of our finalists and winners have gone on to even greater success in their businesses and careers after going through the positive experience of participating in the awards, and in doing so pay it forward &#8230; by inspiring those climbing the ladder towards success! Nominations and entries for the awards are now open, and close on February 28. Entrants must be nominated, and need not be members of the BWA. Entries are welcome for for women in Nelson Mandela Bay and surrounding areas, with previous finalists having come from as far afield as the Garden Route. Every year we discover women of high calibre who do amazing work in their working lives and in the community, Brown said. These awards are a wonderful opportunity to give recognition to women who have built up successful careers and businesses, often succeeding against the odds, and who play a significant role in empowering others to follow in their footsteps and as rolemodels for the next generation of women leaders. Awards are made in six categories: emerging entrepreneur, entrepreneur, social entrepreneur, corporate, professional, and government. An independent panel of judges representing a broad cross-section of the city s leaders in business, government and civil society will select the winners from three finalists in each of the six categories. The winners will be announced at a gala dinner at the Boardwalk Convention Centre on June 13. Download the entry form at: http://www.bwasa. co.za/rbaa-nomination/nominate For more information, contact BWA branch co-ordinator Sam Bowers on (041)367-1104, e-mail: pe@bwasa.co.za Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share