Judy Boucher will perform in The Bay next month Picture: Afternoon Express website Growing up in a South African family back in the 1980s and 90s one could hardly walk down a street without hearing the tunes of Caribbean-born singer Judy Boucher s music blaring from the speakers. Boucher will be heading to South Africa as the headline act for A Valentine Evening with Judy Boucher on the international day of love at the Boardwalk convention centre on February 14, where she will be supported by local artists Alistair Izobell and Garth Taylor. Born on Saint Vincent, a volcanic island in the tiny Caribbean country of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Boucher is best known for hits such as Can t be with you Tonight, You Caught my Eye and My Heart is Yearning, which catapulted her into an international entertainment career very far removed from being a member of her brother s band Judy Jack and the Beanstalk. Boucher holds the record for being the first female artist from the Caribbean to have the longest stay in the national charts and Can t be with You Tonight was voted one of the top 25 most influential songs from Saint Vincent in 1987. In recognition of her achievements Boucher was named by the government of Saint Vincent as their special guest of honour and she remains an ambassador for her country. Boucher shared what Bay audiences could expect from her Valentine s Day performance: When you recorded hits such as Can t Be With You Tonight, did you have any idea they would become as successful as they did? No, I did not have any idea that the album would be a hit. A friend and former musician asked me to record the album and after much deliberation I decided to do just one as a favour. That was the beginning. You ve been in the industry for more than 30 years. What keeps you going? The love from the public and the request to return to various countries to perform keeps me going. Who are some of your musical influences? My musical influences are Aretha Franklin, Anita Baker and the Four Tops including Gladys Knight. I ve also been influenced by Morgan Heritage, Beres Hammond and Marcia Griffiths, to name a few. What was life like growing up on an island? Saint Vincent is not unlike Cape Town. I migrated to England at the age of 15. I had a lot of good times and I have eight siblings. When did you realise you could sing and how did you get started? I only found out I could sing when my brother asked me to sing for him in my early teens. He told me I had a great voice and suggested that we start a band. The rest is history. You ve travelled around the world. What keeps you coming back to South Africa and what is your fondest memory of being here? I was signed by a record company from Joburg and they invited me to tour South Africa. After much deliberation I decided to visit and was absolutely blown away by the beauty and the love I was shown. My fondest memory is performing at a festival, where I was amazed by the crowd s reaction. Any plans to record new music or perhaps even a collaboration with a South African artist? I do not have any plans to record new music right now, but never say never. I ve recorded 10 albums and they are still going strong. What can Bay audiences expect from your performance? Any surprises? I am so looking forward to Port Elizabeth. It s been a long time since I visited and a lot of folks have been writing to me asking why I haven t been. Now I am happy to oblige. So far we haven t planned any surprises for the audience, but you never know. Everyone has their favourite, so I will do my best to make them happy. The show starts at 8.30pm and tickets from R150 to R300 per person are at Computicket. More information at www.marmaladeproductions.co.za Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share