AN exciting final two days of cricket is on the cards at Buffalo Park in East London as the Sunfoil Series clash between the Warriors and the Cape Cobras sits evenly poised after two days of engrossing cricket. Sunfoil Series leading run-scorer Colin Ackermann hit 89 and Yaseen Vallie an unbeaten 56 as they shared in a solid 101-run partnership to help the Warriors reach 175/5 in their first innings yesterday, still trailing the Cobras first innings total by 116 runs. It was a frustrating stop-start day for the players as inclement weather saw the start of play delayed, before bad light forced players off twice, as only 42.3 overs were possible in the day. Having reached tea at 141/3 with Ackermann unbeaten on 69 and Vallie on 43 not out, the Warriors were in a really good position. However, after a short delay for bad light after tea, play resumed and the Cobras claimed two wickets to even things up. After Vallie smashed a four and then ran a three to reach his half-century, Ackermann top-edged a Dane Paterson delivery to mid-wicket where Simon Khomari took an easy catch. New man Somila Seyibokwe then fell for a six-ball duck as he edged a swinging Rory Kleinveldt delivery, with Dane Vilas taking the catch behind the stumps. At the end of the next over, with the Warriors on 175/5, the umpires called play for bad light, ending the day s play. Persistent overnight and early-morning rain had already seen the start of day two delayed and an early lunch taken by the players. Play finally got under way just after lunch at 1.15pm, with the Warriors resuming their first innings on 5/1, still trailing the Cobras by 286 runs after they bowled them out for 291 just before close on day one. The Cobras then struck early as Paterson found Edward Moore s outside edge to have him caught by keeper Vilas for seven as the Warriors slipped to 14/2. Lesiba Ngoepe then joined Ackermann and they steadied the ship, taking the Warriors past 50, before Jason Smith made the breakthrough, having Ngoepe caught in the slips for 17 with the Warriors on 70/3. Vallie then came to the crease. He and Ackermann shared an unbroken 71-run stand to take the Warriors safely to tea. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share