HEALTH HAZARD: Residents in Chatty Extension area have serious problems with blocked drains causing sewage to spill over into the streets. Nomthandazo Dorana sits on the drain that is overflowing. Picture: Judy de Vega Only months after moving into their brand new houses in Port Elizabeth s Chatty Extension, residents are desperately crying out for help as their homes are surrounded by pools of sewage. For three weeks the community have been trying to get the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality to unclog what they believe are faulty sewer pipes. The newer section of houses part of the Qunu 1060 project was only completed late last year. The raw sewage spewing out of the drains has caused a pungent stench all around the area, posing a major health risk. When Weekend Post visited the area yesterday, the team saw homes surrounded by sewage and contaminated water, exacerbated with every flush of a toilet. Residents said they had been living with the horrid smell for three weeks despite several complaints to the municipality. They complained that they felt sick from breathing in the foul air. Urselle Majanie, 37, said she was forced to use a bucket to relieve herself. Three weeks back we had a problem of blocked toilets in this area and it soon affected the outside drain and in no time there was a stagnant pool of dirty water in our yard, she said. It does not only end with water because at times there are also faeces and toilet paper coming from our drain. I can no longer use my toilet. We are forced to use a bucket to relieve ourselves and we empty the contents in the open space, Majanie said. Melanie Bekeer, 42, said they could not enjoy their meals as the smell was unbearable. We are worried about our kids safety because at times you find them playing in this dirty water, she said. Nomthandazo Dorana, 37, said animals were also affected by the pool of sewage near her house. At times you find dogs drinking from this dirty water. We also need to look after our kids to prevent them from playing in this stench. The municipality should do something about the blockage as it poses a health hazard to the residents of this area, Dorana said. Community leader Simphiwe Waka said the matter had been reported several times to the municipality. The problem is the connection between the main [pipe] and the houses, he said. Municipal officials came here but they left us with a big open hole which is a danger for our kids. There are pipes that end up depositing human faeces and toilet paper in that hole. We had no choice but to close it with planks, Waka said. Ward 29 councillor Vukile Dyele said all the drains in the area needed to be cleared before the municipality could attend to the blocked sewerage system. The drains had been blocked during the construction, he said. That can only be done once all the houses are built. Municipal spokesman Mthubanzi Mniki said they were aware that there was a problem in the Chatty 1060 area. We will investigate the matter as a matter of urgency. We have already made contact with the community through their community leader, he said. Further communication will be made with the affected community in due course. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share