Betito Ebengo, head stylist and lead educator at ORS South Africa (formerly Organic Root Stimulator) , gives the low down on why conditioner is a must-have for ethnic hair With a special interest in the relationship between hair and cosmetics Ebengo continually researches the safety and effects of chemicals used in hair products. His advice is that African hair, due to its structure, needs protein to strengthen the hair and it needs moisture to prevent hair from looking dull. The treatment? Conditioner, of course! Ebengo says it is essential to include conditioner in your weekly cleansing regime because using only shampoo results in draining moisture from the hair and scalp leaving hair brittle and exposed to the elements. Conditioner holds many benefits for the health of your hair: it restores moisture and makes hair smoother; it improves the elasticity of your hair and thereby making it stronger; it stops shedding and breakage, it ensure that hair is manageable and easy to style; and overall it promotes healthy hair growth. Conditioner should be applied after each shampoo, he recommends. Whether your hair is natural, chemically treated or worn in a protective style it is recommended to wash and condition every week. If your hair is excessively dry it is recommended that you alternate with a co-wash (conditioner only) every other week. With so many conditioners to choose from it is easy to get lost between all the ingredients on the shelf. In choosing a good conditioner look out for the following ingredients: plant oils such as olive oil, argan oil and mono oil; amino acids (adds strength); panthanol (a vitamin that promotes hair growth); and polymers (moisturizing agents). Apart from the various ingredients one has the further choice between normal conditioner, leave-in conditioner and conditioning treatments. The rule of thumb is that a normal conditioner is oil-based, a leave-in conditioner is water-based and a conditioning treatment contains additional protein. But which one to use? Normal conditioner is recommended for hair that is not extremely dry. Because it is oil-based it should be rinsed out of the hair after two or three minutes to prevent hair from becoming heavy. The water-based leave-in conditioner is recommended for hair that has tendencies to be very dry. Due to its water-base it easily penetrates the hair shaft without making hair heavy. It is best applied before styling and will leave hair with an extra gloss. Deep conditioning treatment is highly recommended if your hair suffered damage from chemical treatment. The additional protein is deeply absorbed due to the longer leave-in time, usually 15-20 minutes, thereby repairing hair and restoring the moisture-balance of the hair. By following the correct conditioning regime this winter you can showcase beautiful, shiny kinks and curls all season long. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share