Forest Hill residents are petitioning for a new route for processions to the Forest Hill Cemetery. Among them are community group members, from left, Avuzwa Matele with little Zizo, 2, Ian Bezuidenhout, Sithetha Yanga and Clinton Hall Picture: Eugene Coetzee New residents group pushes for rerouting of cavalcades A Forest Hill non-profit company (NPC), fed up with weekly funeral processions disrupting the community, has called for them to be rerouted to bypass the suburb. Forest Hill Community said vehicle cavalcades bound for Forest Hill Cemetery on the suburb s outskirts sometimes numbered 30 at a time and brought the community to a standstill most Saturday mornings. Clogging access points, they often left a trail of bottles and other litter tossed out of windows. The processions usually stop at the bottle store, blocking the pavement so you can t walk past, and then the mourners drink in public, become rude and urinate in the street, the organisation s chairman, Ian Bezuidenhout, said yesterday. They stop the traffic to allow their processions through and sometimes they ride on the wrong side of the road. It s not all of them that behave like this, but most of the time they do and it s not fair on us the residents when we re trying to uplift our suburb. Officially registered as an NPC four months ago, Forest Hill Community has been running for seven months. Funded by a levy from its 270 members, it has already established a nightly neighbourhood watch and a weekly soup kitchen. Supported by DA councillor Renaldo Gouws, it has applied to have speed humps installed in Orange Grove Street to dissuade speedsters and protect children using the park. The organisation has also cleaned walkways of scruffy exotic vegetation used in the past by criminals to hide in and has organised fun days for Protea Place of Safety children in return for the NPC being able to use its hall. It would also begin taking on home upgrades for residents, including painting walls and trimming hedges, Bezuidenhout said. There is a perception that this is a rough area. But there are many decent people who live here. We re proud of our suburb and we re trying to make it better, he said. Funeral processions to the cemetery turn off La Roche Drive into Access Road at La Roche Motors garage and then proceed south down Forest Hill Drive, turning left into Blackthorn and then right into Driftsands roads. Forest Hill Community wants them to be rerouted to go straight down La Roche Drive, then right into Strandfontein, right into Blackthorn and left into Driftsands bypassing the residential streets. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality spokesman Mthubanzi Mniki said yesterday the traffic department would be encouraging funeral processions to use the route proposed by the group. He said funeral undertakers would also be informed. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share