In a country which is supposedly prioritising fighting violent crime, disregard for state witnesses who have helped secure the conviction and incarceration of murderous thugs, is a gross injustice. As we report today, a pastor has been on the run, and living in constant fear for his and his family s safety after having helped put a northern areas killer behind bars. But he now finds himself abandoned. Brendon Olivier was a key witness to a murder in which the victim, Angelo Hendricks, died in his arms. That was eight years ago, but Olivier says he has not been afforded the protection he was promised for his crucial testimony which became pivotal, given that two other witnesses flatly refused to testify. As it is, a fourth witness was gunned down after returning to the troubled gang lands while Olivier believes the killing of a relative of his was also in retaliation for the evidence he gave. He must now live like a shadow, constantly watching his back. And, having lost his job and his family a home which they were forced to flee, they are struggling in desperate living conditions without any back-up from the Justice Department authorities who were so keen for him to help them nail their man. Little wonder then that the terrified mother of Hendricks is adamant that she will never testify in court even if like Olivier she is a witness to a murder. It is a damning indictment on the justice, and safety and liaison departments along with the police who, Olivier says, gave him a string of assurances, that he now feels like a fugitive himself. How can witnesses to such crimes possibly be expected to make themselves and their loved ones targets if they see what happens to Olivier and others who want to do the right thing? There appear, from Olivier s experience, to be few long-term arrangements in place for the protection of witnesses in light of the fact that officials consider his case closed. There is no way that the war against those terrorising the gang-plagued northern areas can be won, if the authorities do not have the community on board. And that means shielding them when it is clearly necessary. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share