All eyes will be on President Jacob Zuma tomorrow when he delivers his last January 8 statement to celebrate the ANC s 105 birthday in Soweto. He is likely to use the annual address to set the tone for the ruling party in what will be a busy year. The ANC will have a consultative conference in June and an elective conference in December where his successor as ANC president will be elected. Yesterday, ANC national spokesman Zizi Kodwa said it was all systems go for tomorrow s rally. We decided to take it to Soweto so that we can connect with the people of Soweto. These are the people, some of them who did not come out in the last elections. We are using this opportunity to reclaim that lost ground, Kodwa said, adding that party bosses had been addressing communities and ANC members in Soweto since last week. He said Zuma s message should give direction to the ANC and the country. The build-up to the rally has been marred by controversy and a social media campaign which malfunctioned. The Liquor Board initially announced that trading hours would be extended to accommodate the ruling party this weekend a decision it later reversed amid huge public outcry. The ANC distanced itself from the board s decision. In came the #WeAreANC campaign on Twitter, where party members were encouraged to drum up the celebrations. However, it soon backfired with people pointing out the ruling party s shortfalls and accusing it of being corrupt. Despite this, Kodwa said the campaign was a success. The ANC in the Eastern Cape, which will also have its provincial elective conference this year, will not be transporting any party members to the celebrations. Provincial secretary Oscar Mabuyane said this was because the 45 000 capacity seater Orlando Stadium was small. ANC members in the province will have their own celebrations next Sunday at the Walter Sisulu University in Mthatha. We are waiting for national [leaders] to confirm who will be sent down to address us. For now, it is the provincial chairman [Phumulo Masualle] who will address us, Mabuyane said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share