COMFORTING WORDS: EFF leader Julius Malema meets #FeesMusFall KwaZulu-Natal leader Bonginkosi Khanyile s mother, Phumzile Khathini, at Westville Prison before visiting Khanyile Picture: THULI DLAMINI Economic Freedom Fighters president Julius Malema said yesterday that his party had assembled the best legal team to ensure the release of incarcerated KwaZulu-Natal #FeesMustFall activist Bonginkosi Education Khanyile. After visiting Khanyile in prison, Malema said the party would challenge the incarceration. EFF secretary-general Godrich Gardee said the party would take Khanyile s case to the Supreme Court of Appeal. We believe keeping him in prison has violated his rights to bail, Gardee said. We are not waiting for his next appearance. Khanyile is expected back in court on January 19. The EFF leadership, who visited Khanyile as part of their parliamentary oversight role, were accompanied to the Durban Westville Prison by Khanyile s mother, Phumzile Khathini, and the student s siblings. Khanyile has spent nearly four months in jail after he was arrested on September 27 last year during protests at the Durban University of Technology. He has been denied bail by the Durban Magistrate s Court and the Pietermaritzburg High Court on three previous occasions and is believed to be the only #FeesMustFall student still behind bars. Addressing the EFF crowd of more than 500 after the visit, Malema heaped praise at Khanyile s mother, saying she was very fortunate that her child was among those who had taken a risk to fight for a noble cause. You still have courage to stand with us, Malema said. You have spent your festive season and Christmas Day without your child who is in prison not because he s a criminal, but because he is fighting for a just cause. We salute the family for standing with your child in these difficult moments. We are with you. We have assembled the most powerful legal brains in our country to release him from prison, Malema said. Advocate Tembeka Ngcukaitobi represented Khanyile in December along with EFF national chairman Advocate Dali Mpofu. Final-year public administration student and EFF representative Khanyile is facing eight charges including public violence illegal gathering and inciting violence. He was denied bail because he had committed a similar offence while out on bail for charges levelled against him in February. Malema has questioned the bail decision. The EFF leader said Khanyile was no flight risk and that there was no way he could threaten witnesses because those witnesses were the police. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share