With stakes higher than ever, analysts warn of more factionalism and unfairness in process It is about to get dirty, with the stakes higher than ever before, political analysts have warned as the race for the ANC s top job officially kicked into gear at the weekend. Two months after labour federation Cosatu endorsed Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa as its preferred candidate for the ANC president position, the ANC Women s League shunned tradition by publicly affirming its support for former African Union Commission chairwoman Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma on Saturday. While Dlamini-Zuma has yet to say if she will be throwing her hat in the ring. Ramaphosa said last month he was available to stand. The early pronouncement of names by Cosatu and the women s league in the leadership succession debate has been widely criticised as being divisive and premature. Even ANC president Jacob Zuma on Sunday cautioned against endorsing specific leaders before discussing principles and policy. But according to analysts, this was no different from the run-up to previous conferences, particularly since Polokwane in 2007. Whoever succeeds in taking over from Zuma is likely to be the country s next president unless the party fails to garner enough votes for an outright majority win. University of Johannesburg politics professor Mcebisi Ndletyana said with all succession debates, particularly since 2007, the ANC had come out weaker. Since 2007, you ve never had a unifying candidate coming out of that conference. The ANC has never been able to steer the campaign process properly. The debate has not always been about politics but about people, Ndletyana said. The nomination process is not clean and that s why you have debates that are personalised and corrupt processes that serve to alienate and divide the party. And the stakes are even higher this time. For the full story read The Herald, or get the complete newspaper, including comics, classifieds, crosswords and back editions in our e-Edition. &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share