&nbsp; An outpouring of tributes in honour of South African jazz veteran Thandi Klaasen continue to flood social media networks. News of Klaasen s death at the age of 86 was confirmed on Sunday morning by her family through a media statement. Klaasen s daughter Lorraine confirmed last week that the jazz legend had been battling with pancreatic cancer. President Jacob Zuma and numerous high-profile celebrities have paid tribute to the fallen musician who touched the lives of thousands of people through her music. Ms Klaasen contributed to the country not only as a musician but also a social and political activist who was always outspoken about social-economic issues in the country. We have lost one of the leading pioneers of South African jazz music and promoters of the country s cosmopolitan culture. She was a role model to many of our young and upcoming musicians and her legacy will live on for generations to come said President Zuma through a media statement. Celebrities including Felicia Mabuza Suttle Euphonik and Generations actress Nambitha Mpumlwana joined hundreds of fans in paying tribute to the star. I met #ThandiKlaasen in a Montreal winter. She told me that, if I can walk on the ice, I can make it in the entertainment industry! &mdash; NAMBITHA (@NAMBITHA) January 15, 2017 Rest In Peace #ThandiKlaasen &mdash; Euphonik (@euphonik) January 15, 2017 Sad to hear about passing of #jazzshero #ThandiKlaasen. We enjoyed he many appearances on the #FeliciaShow. You demonstrated true courage. pic.twitter.com/4XPRs6oK9p &mdash; Felicia MabuzaSuttle (@Feliciamabuza) January 15, 2017 Rest in peace Mama. Your resilience, your music, your power will forever be remembered. #ThandiKlaasen pic.twitter.com/UDEeZeeAOn &mdash; Masechaba Ndlovu (@MasechabaNdlovu) January 15, 2017 Sad news .Rest in peace #ThandiKlaasen always humble and so gracious .we have lost a giant of South African music &mdash; Hotstix (@siphohotstix) January 15, 2017 Memorial and funeral details are expected to be announced soon. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share