At a Proteas practice session ahead of today s game against Sri Lanka at St George s Park are, from left, Imran Tahir, Hashim Amla and Farhaan Behardien Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Proteas skipper backs his boys as ODI series starts Back at full strength, the Proteas will be looking to launch a telling counterattack when they square up against a confident Sri Lankan side in the opening one-day international at St George s Park today (10am start). The tourists arrived in Port Elizabeth on Thursday with an extra spring in their step, having beaten South Africa 2-1 in the T20 international series in mid-week. In the back of their minds they will know that victory was achieved against what was essentially an experimental Proteas side, with so many senior players being rested. But a win is a win and the Sri Lankans will deservedly be claiming it. Fit-again Proteas ODI skipper AB de Villiers gave the Lankans their due at his pre-match media conference yesterday. Look, the Sri Lankans came back really well. They played some good cricket in the last two T20s. So we know now they are a very motivated group of young players, he said. De Villiers believes his squad have the upper hand over the tourists heading into the ODI series but remains wary of the threat they pose. So even though we feel we are a more talented and more skillful and a better group of players at the moment than Sri Lanka, we know they are very dangerous . . . We know we are going to have to play some good cricket to beat them. After a disappointing Tri-Series in the West Indies in June last year, which included Australia, South Africa have come back remarkably well, winning six ODI matches on the bounce. De Villiers believes his team can continue that trend. I think we are in a really good space . . . after that West Indies tour we really got rid of all the baggage and you can see in the way we ve been playing that it s a happy group of players. In his comeback match from injury, De Villiers made a fine 63 in a losing cause in Cape Town on Wednesday and said he was ready to continue his love affair with St George s today. I ve got great memories of this ground, especially in the last five ODIs here. I m very keen to play [today]. The team will be without new kid on the block Lungi Ngidi, who has been ruled out of the series with a side strain, but there will be plenty more artillery on display. Back into the squad come Hashim Amla, Quinton de Kock, JP Duminy, Faf du Plessis and Kagiso Rababa and they will be fresh after sitting out of the T20s and keen to make an early impression in the series. Assessing the conditions will be key . . . We are still not 100% sure of the team we are going to play because of the rain, so we will wait and see what happens [this] morning, De Villiers said. &nbsp; SOUTH AFRICA (first three matches): AB de Villiers (capt), Hashim Amla, Farhaan Behardien, Quinton de Kock (wkt), JP Duminy, Faf du Plessis, Imran Tahir, David Miller, Chris Morris, Wayne Parnell, Lungi Ngidi, Andile Phehlukwayo, Dwaine Pretorius, Kagiso Rabada, Tabraiz Shamsi. SRI LANKA: Upul Tharanga (capt), Dinesh Chandimal (wkt), Chaturanga de Silva, Dhananjaya de Silva, Thikshila de Silva, Niroshan Dickwella, Asela Gunaratne, Nuwan Kulasekara, Suranga Lakmal, Lahiru Madushanka, Kusal Mendis, Sachith Pathirana, Seekkuge Prasanna, Lakshan Sandakan, Isuru Udana, Sandun Weerakkody. Fixtures: Today: Port Elizabeth; Wednesday: Durban; February 4: Johannesburg; February 7: Cape Town; February 10: Centurion Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share