Police in France arrested 17 people yesterday in connection with a robbery in which reality TV star Kim Kardashian was held at gunpoint in a Paris flat by gangsters who made off on bicycles with jewellery worth 9-million (R130-million). Police swooped in the Paris region and the south of France following forensic work at the luxury Paris residence where Kardashian was tied up and robbed of her jewellery in October. One of the DNA samples matched an individual known to police for robbery and criminal offences, who is considered a major thug, one source said. Using the evidence found at the scene, investigators were able to put in place a surveillance operation and build up a picture of the criminal network behind the robbery, he said. It stretched as far as Belgium. Money and documents were also seized in yesterday s raids. A gang of armed and masked men wearing police uniforms had burst into the residence in the chic Madeleine area of the capital where Kardashian, 36, and her entourage were staying during Paris Fashion Week. The gang tied her up, locked her in the bathroom and fled with jewellery including a ring worth about 4-million (R57-million) and a case of jewellery with a value of 5-million (R72-million). The Kardashian family s French bodyguard, Pascal Duvier, was not at the scene at the time because he was providing security for Kim s sister, Kourtney, at a Paris nightclub. Kardashian, who is married to rap mogul Kanye West, finally broke her silence about the incident this weekend, saying she feared she was going to be killed by the robbers. They re going to shoot me in the back, she sobbed to her sisters while recounting the ordeal in a promotional clip for the new season of her TV show Keeping Up with the Kardashians. There s no way out. It makes me so upset to think about it, she said. It is believed the men escaped on bicycles, but one of the gang dropped a diamond pendant worth about 30 000 (R433 000) in the street. It was found by a passer-by and handed in to police several hours after the robbery. Kardashian has harnessed the power of social media to rise to fame, with nearly 50 million followers on Twitter and 90 million on Instagram. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share