Queen Mary 2 Captain Christopher Wells, left, and Nelson Mandela Metro executive mayor Athol Trollip exchange gifts Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Queen Mary 2 Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Queen Mary 2 Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Queen Mary 2 Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Queen Mary 2 Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Queen Mary 2 Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Queen Mary 2 Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Queen Mary 2 Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Queen Mary 2 Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Queen Mary 2 Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Queen Mary 2 Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Queen Mary 2 Picture: Fredlin Adriaan The Herald reporter Athena O Reilly and photographer Fredlin Adriaan visited the Queen Mary 2 ocean liner which docked in the Port Elizabeth harbour on Sunday Sophistication, elegance and old-world charm are just a few ways to describe the royal experience the Queen Mary 2 ocean liner offers her passengers. A floating entertainment centre for well-heeled elderly travellers complete with mortuary in case of death is another, as was seen when the stately Cunard liner docked in the Port Elizabeth harbour for the day on Sunday. With 13 decks, an indoor swimming pool with a retractable ceiling, two outdoor swimming pools, a sports deck with a short tennis court, golf net and two shuffle boards, the liner also boasts the world s largest sea library, with about 80 000 books. She also houses the only mortuary on sea, which has space for eight corpses, kennels for dogs and cats and among the more popular public facilities a casino, art gallery and two theatres. One of the theatres, Illuminations, has 480 seats and is the world s only 3D theatre on sea that offers a planetarium which allows passengers the chance to view the stars and offers a virtual ride into outer space. The 345m vessel arrived in the harbour after 4am and set sail for Mauritius last night with about 3 000 passengers on board. They had paid on average 40 000 (about R676 000) for a round-the-world trip. Entertainment host David Picton, who has been working on board the vessel for four years, said in the first seven days of the four-month trip around the world from Southampton to New York City, 74 000 eggs were consumed. The planning process was a bit of a logistical nightmare but there is enough food to last forever on this ship. We are much like a floating island we even make our own fresh water from the salt water. When the vessel travelled across the Atlantic Ocean, it often sailed over the wreck of the Titanic. Thankfully, however, the liner was sturdy enough to withstand any rough sea conditions, he said. On a liner the ceilings are higher than on a cruise ship and the corridors are wider, which gives a sense of space. Apparently there was a storm on Saturday night but you would not feel it on board because we have eight stabilisers, so in any weather conditions our passengers would have a good sleep. England s Pell family, who boarded the ship in Cape Town and will disembark in Melbourne, said their experience had been brilliant. Rodger, 70, and Tania Pell, 51, are celebrating their 21st cruise with this trip on the Queen Mary 2 with their daughter Carrie, 26. Everything from the beds to the food has been awesome. It is very stately but it is by far the best cruise liner we have been on, Rodger said. Carrie said despite being among the younger passengers, she could not have missed the opportunity. I am having difficulty finding someone my age to chat to, but this is a once-in-a-lifetime chance to sail the Queen Mary 2 and who would say no to that? Carrie said. I think because of its high-end nature people my age can t necessarily afford this trip, but it has been brilliant so far. Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip said he hoped the city could attract more cruise liners to dock in the harbour. I am absolutely astounded at the size of this beautiful ship but I am actually more captivated at how many people disembarked here today [yesterday], Trollip said. They are obviously well-heeled people who are coming to enjoy the city and spend money here and create opportunities, so that is what really excites me. We plan with Transnet, the city and the business chamber to make sure every visit is better than the previous one and that we can attract more cruise liners to our city. Glen Hurd couple James, 61, and Gillian Carney, 60, were among the onlookers at the harbour taking pictures of the ship. They said sailing on board the Queen Mary 2 was on their bucket list. #Picoftheday: The #QueenMary2 captured by @noddy84 in the #PortElizabeth #harbour this evening #ship #cruise #Curnard #pebynight #NelsonMandelaBay #EasternCape #travel #sea #hotshotswp #instacruise A photo posted by The Herald Port Elizabeth (@heraldlive) on Jan 29, 2017 at 10:51am PST Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share