CLEANED OUT: The iStore in Walmer Park Shopping Centre where thieves made off with millions of rands in stock. They emptied most of the display cabinets Picture: EUGENE COETZEE Appeal for special police unit to probe burglaries Almost R2-million worth of the latest model Apple cellphones and gadgets were stolen from the iStore at Walmer Park when thieves broke into a shop via the ceiling some time between Sunday afternoon and yesterday morning. Police said the burglary at the Walmer Park Shopping Centre was well planned as the thieves had known exactly which panels to lift to get into a storeroom. In another burglary in Joubertina, also during the early hours of yesterday, a gang of four men were arrested after attempting to open a safe with an angle grinder at the Pep Store branch there. The recent incidents have prompted security experts to call for a task team to investigate all burglaries linked to syndicates targeting various business after closing time. Yesterday morning, the iStore shop was closed with a sign stating it was doing a stock-take. The manageress confirmed the incident but referred all questions to the police. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said: The thieves strategically came through the roof in the back section of the shop. They ransacked the shop, stealing cellphones to the value of R1.9-million, she said. This appears to be a well-planned and organised theft. They managed to drop directly into the vault in the back. By yesterday, a preliminary investigation revealed that close to 200 phones had been stolen. Access was gained by an unknown number of thieves. Staff entered the shop to open up for trading when they realised the store had been broken into, Naidu said. By yesterday afternoon, forensic experts were still on the scene. Walmer Park Shopping Centre management did not respond to requests for comment. In Joubertina, four men who allegedly broke into a Pep Store were arrested while trying to ransack the shop. Joubertina area police spokeswoman Captain Gerda Swart said two of the men, aged 30 and 33, had been nabbed inside the shop while using an angle grinder to open the safe. A short while later, the getaway driver was arrested in a rental VW Polo from Cape Town and a fourth suspect was arrested while waiting on the nearby R62. Swart said two of the men were from the Western Cape, one from the Northern Cape and the driver from Joubertina. Angle grinders and other items used to gain entry to the store were found inside the shop and confiscated as evidence. The men are aged between 30 and 45. Swart said detectives were in the process of ascertaining if the men were linked to similar burglaries across the country where angle grinders were used to open safes. Atlas Security operations manager Monty Montgomery said that since last year burglars breaking into businesses via ceilings had become a serious problem. It is a major issue and we have several incidents where this happened, he said. This is a massive problem. Last year, we had the anglegrinder gang who targeted many shops in the Bay and surroundings towns using the exact same modus operandi. The gang hit almost a 100 businesses across the Bay, mainly gaining entry through the roof during the dark of night and then using angle grinders to cut open the safes. Montgomery called the gang members career criminals who specifically targeted businesses who dealt with cash. The arrest of the four men linked to the Pep Store burglary in Joubertina was hailed as a breakthrough. You are talking about highly organised syndicates who plan and execute these burglaries with ease, Montgomery said. A team needs to be established to track down and arrest these criminals. The four men are due to appear in the Joubertina Magistrate s Court tomorrow. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share