Jeremy Mansfield Picture: Gallo Images/Foto24/Herman Verwey Broadcast veteran Jeremy Mansfield has grand political ambitions which could include cleaning up the problems at the SABC. The former 947 breakfast show host revealed yesterday that he had been in discussions with DA leaders including MP Ross Purdon about joining the party in some capacity as the official opposition prepares to contest the 2019 national elections. Mansfield said that after meeting the leadership on December 31 he had decided to pursue a political career. He will meet the party s Gauteng leadership in the next few weeks to discuss what role he will play in the party, but he hopes to use his experience in broadcasting to fix the wrongs at the SABC. My role is up to the party and where they decide to put me, he said. I am happy with wherever they decide to put me but I know that I can assist in possibly cleaning up the problems at the SABC and broadcasting. Also perhaps in the portfolio of arts and culture. My passion is also animal rights, so that could play a part. If the party sees fit I would love to work on any of those portfolios in parliament. Mansfield said the SABC faced many challenges that he would be able to correct. First of all it needs to keep its mandate as a public broadcaster and not a voice of the ANC, he said. The only way to rectify that is by sorting out the board and management on a parliamentary level. In arts and culture from what I have heard from people in the industry there is not enough engagement between the parties who run the portfolio and people in the industry. Mansfield announced his political ambitions via social media this week telling his friends and fans that he wanted to make a difference in the country. DA Gauteng leader John Moodey said: We are extremely excited to welcome Jeremy as an active member. He has been a long-time supporter of the party and we look forward to meeting with him to discuss a role for him ahead of the 2019 national elections. [With his energy and vast knowledge] he brings brand recognition and credibility. But Mansfield s decision was not without criticism Hours after announcing his political ambitions critics accused him of being a wife beater and using his celebrity status for political gain. He said he could have taken legal action, but instead chose to laugh off the criticism. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share