Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University has announced the appointment of Dr Randall Jonas to director of the institution s business school. Widely experienced in both business and education and holding strong, current links with NMMU, Jonas took up his new post at the Summerstrand-based school yesterday. He previously served on the NMMU Council and NMMU Trust, and is president of the NMMU Alumni Association. Commenting on his appointment, which he views as an honour, coupled with huge responsibility, Jonas said: As director of the business school I am privileged to be a partner in business education services as a catalyst specifically for business success and economic growth more generally. Jonas will work closely with NMMU s executive dean of economic sciences, Dr Ismail Lagardien, using his extensive business experience to strengthen the faculty s vision of being an active and engaged faculty at the cutting edge of teaching, learning and research that contributes to real socio-economic solutions. He has more than 35 years working experience in both the public and private sectors, including many years as chief executive of the Eastcape Training Centre (ETC). Jonas has led numerous public and private sector institutions, has led successful turnaround strategies in non-profit organisations and has also established best practices in corporate governance. He aims to continue building on the successes of the NMMU Business School. In a very short time it [the business school] has established its reputation, relevance and value by being abreast of a changing world. I believe that it provides a sound basis to continue in my role to lead the business school as an engaged entity that is in tune with current and future challenges and opportunities, he said. Jonas said the school would continue to offer relevant and value-adding programmes in order to make a meaningful contribution to business and socio-economic development. He said that while adapting to changing business trends, the business school should also be at the cutting edge of research. Some of the new trends in business education place a high premium on entrepreneurship education, corporate responsibility, sustainability, innovation, strategy, etc. The business school will, through its value proposition, continue to add value to our clients, he said. Lagardien said: Dr Randall Jonas will lead the business school at an exciting time for business and economics sciences at NMMU. His wealth of experience and his deeply moored knowledge base will significantly strengthen the vision of the business and economics sciences faculty. Early in December, the business school received confirmation of its MBA accreditation from the International Accreditation Advisory Board of the Association of MBAs. Under Dr Jonas s leadership, and with the dedicated team in place within the business school, we will strengthen the scope of our MBA, expand our collaboration with our business and community partners in Nelson Mandela Bay and in the Eastern Cape and nationally. Jonas has a BA degree from the University of the Western Cape, a Higher Diploma in Education, a Master s in Sociology (University of Port Elizabeth) and a doctorate specialising in organisational management from NMMU. He spent 26 years as an educator at Chapman High School, where he was headmaster from 1998 until 2006. He went on to lead ETC, and in 2012 he started Symposia as a subsidiary of the ETC Group. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share