Mark Farrow as King Wally and Leslie Speyers as Queen Wendolina of Puss in Boots the Pantomime You could be forgiven for thinking you had stepped into a musical jigsaw at the Pemads Little Theatre at the weekend when characters from a slew of stage hits arrived for the 2016 Twelfth Night awards. But it was all part of a special celebration by the society to honour its remarkably sprightly honorary life president Denzil Levy, who will be turning 100 years old this year and who was up on stage to hand over trophies to those who had excelled in a busy year for Pemads with productions of Puss in Boots the Pantomime, Proof and the Fiona Coyne Double Bill which was made up of As the Koekie Crumbles and Careful. Guests arrived on Friday evening dressed with much attention to detail as characters from favourites such as Beauty and the Beast, Wicked, Phantom of the Opera and Hair, while songstress Marelize Booyens entertained with her own sparkling stage musical scrapbook and a special tribute was paid to Levy who later cut a special centenarian cake. A leading architect in his day and highly-respected patron of the arts in Port Elizabeth, Levy was largely instrumental in the rebuilding and revitalisation of the theatre in 1980 by managing to secure much needed donations of building materials and other services. Puss in Boots the Pantomime and As the Koekie Crumbles were the big winners of the evening, sharing best production honours, with the panto scooping best actor and best supporting actor awards for Leslie Speyers and Mark Farrow respectively, while Niqui Cloete-Barrass was named best actress for As the Koekie Crumbles. Amy Huntley was honoured for best novice performance for her role in Proof and best director of the year was awarded to Linda-Louise Swain for The Fiona Coyne Double Bill. Other trophies of the evening went to Nicole Silcock for backstage excellence, Lance bright for public relations, Mark Farrow for creative excellence and Leslie Speyers for fellowship while a special merit certificate was awarded to Kim Ranwell. A Pemads committee special award in recognition of outstanding achievement in a directorial debut was made to Jamie-Lee Reynolds for her production of Proof. The judges also made special mention of Lauren Volker for her choreography of Puss in Boots and Farrow, Bright, Tony Hibberd and Brendon van Heerden for their building and creative set design for Proof. Guests later enjoyed a cocktail function after the awards. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share