RUNNING SMOOTHLY: Eastern Province Athletics president Selby Thebethe. Picture: Eugene Coetzee Two-year campaign leads to turnaround for struggling EPA With the Eastern Province Athletics (EPA) elections for the new board and executive looming, current president Selby Thebethe has recapped on his two years in office. Thebethe was appointed president in November 2014 and soon after taking office he was faced with a crisis of athletes who were not paid their prize money after taking part in a half-marathon event organised by the EPA. However, the 43-year-old and his executive were able to overcome those challenges and ran a successful twoyear campaign in office that has redeemed the name and credibility of EPA. Thebethe said there had been growth in terms of sponsors coming in and supporting the organisation and also a number of new clubs forming in addition to the existing 44 clubs. The EPA also organised a development programme in schools which looks at grooming young and talented athletes around the Bay. However, one thing they have fallen short in is producing a national and provincial athlete, which Thebethe said was one of their main focuses going forward. When I came in things were bad, he said. When I came in 2014 there was this issue of athletes not being paid and that was my biggest challenge. If Jumbo Cash and Carry had not come to the rescue, I don t know how I would have dealt with that. I had a cash injection from Jumbo and they said to me, Use this money any way you like . I just paid those athletes and all the suppliers. Thebethe said the role as EPA was to develop athletes in the province and since he had taken office he had seen major growth in the federation. We have gained the trust of our clients, the people who supply us with medals and with everything that is associated with athletics, he said. My board is stronger than the previous board. We didn t have many fights, so I see stability in the office. Among the many things that I would say we have achieved in the two years the one that stands out is the hosting of the SA Championships, which was a half-marathon that we held in July. It was a success and I saw a number of athletes from around the country coming through as well. Thebethe said he had been glad to see many local athletes in the top 20 finishers at the event. Before the half-marathon, the EPA was tasked by Athletics South Africa to host the ASA night series, which was held at NMMU last year. The event was a success despite challenges in obtaining stadiums. So our plan now is to have a stadium that is dedicated for athletics. There are many stadiums in and around the metro which we could use but most of the time our events clash with soccer fixtures, he said. For the first time in 2016 the EPA had a development squad. With the assistance of Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism we managed to collect about 30 athletes who travelled around South Africa to compete with the best guys in the field. The aim was to be able to develop athletes at the highest level and for us to know that in the EPA we have a team that can compete with the best. Those guys have excelled, but the challenge now will be to sustain them. Thebethe said that since the appointment of a sponsorship officer at EPA there had been a major boost when it came to sponsors supporting the organisation. He said the executive made sure that the funding was not misused and the beneficiaries of the funding were the EPA clubs. We have gained the respect of other provincial members of the ASA. I think my team, from the board to the organisers and the EPA office, have done a great job in the two years that we have been in office. On April 1 EPA will elect a new board and leadership. My wish is that the continuity prevails. It s too early to say this ship can be driven by a new board, but according to the constitution we have to have the elections, he said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share