Matt Gennrich While South Africa s new vehicle market ended last year down by 11.4% in total sales, Nelson Mandela Bay s Volkswagen Group SA not only weathered the weak demand in the domestic market, but notched up significant successes. The German carmaker said yesterday that last year marked the seventh consecutive 12 months that the company had dominated the country s new passenger car market ending the year with a commanding 21.9% overall market share. Volkswagen spokesman Matt Gennrich said the VW brand dominated the passenger vehicle market, ending last month with a share of 18.7%. Its Audi luxury brand claimed 3.2% of the passenger car market. The Volkswagen brand which has also led the market for seven consecutive years grew its market share by 0.2% over 2015. The Polo Vivo remained the best-selling passenger car in the country last year, followed by the Polo. Both of these cars have been the No 1 and No 2 best sellers since their launch in 2010, Gennrich said. The factory in Uitenhage produces the Polo Vivo, of which 28 830 were sold last year, and the Polo, 23 279 of which were sold locally. We also exported more than 69 000 Polos predominantly into right-hand drive world markets. Our plant produced about 123 000 vehicles in 2016, which is 3 000 more than in 2015. In terms of exported vehicles, Gennrich estimated that the company had been responsible for about 30% of all passenger vehicles exported from South Africa last year. He said both the company s domestic and export sales results reflected a good balance in Volkswagen s production mix and overall operations. The passenger market ended much in line with our expectations last year, coming in at about 12% below 2015, Gennrich said. We expect, at this early stage, for the passenger market to remain stagnant at about 360 000 units in total this year. But we do still believe that, if the economy recovers slightly due to the end of the drought, there may be some upside potential to 370 000 cars. He also referred to the next major issue most likely to affect both motorists and manufacturers the introduction of cleaner vehicle fuels. New vehicle buyers would certainly be affected, particularly in terms of vehicle purchase choice, if plans were delayed, he said. The National Association of Automobile Manufacturers of South Africa (Naamsa) has reportedly lashed out at the Department of Energy, which it accused of not meeting global standards for clean fuels. At the core of the issue are proposed new regulations which Naamsa believes will make fuel more expensive. Long-anticipated initiatives to produce cleaner fuels at the South African refineries to bring the country s fuel standards closer to those used in European and other international vehicle markets, have been postponed. At issue is the cost involved to alter refinery operations, among other things. Gennrich said as more and more countries introduced new, cleaner fuel standards, the range of imported vehicles available to South Africans would diminish in line with the number of vehicles built to run on fuels available in South Africa. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share