Prophet Jay Israel, 24, of Spirit Life Church in East London, has posted a video on various social media platforms showing members of his congregation losing weight instantly or getting money from nowhere and bottled water changing into wine as he prays. The video, captioned Instant miracle weight loss. No gym. No Forever product or any workout. Bellies shrinking and all ,has caught the attention of many, with some ridiculing him while others praised him for his awesome work . In an interview, the Zimbabwe-born Israel refused to give his real name, saying this was his way of detaching himself from his family, which is of sangoma lineage. Israel said he was an ordinary person who merely knew what others did not, mainly what it was like to be in heaven because he died and rose again . I was fasting for 40 days and 40 nights. On the 34th or 35th day, I died completely. I was declared dead. It was in newspapers, in a place called Bulawayo in Zimbabwe, he said. A Times Media team attended the Tuesday night service. At 5.30pm at the building in the CBD, a handful of congregants walked up and down inside a large room with pink walls and black plastic chairs. They prayed, spoke in tongues, screamed and clapped. At about 7.30pm, hundreds had flocked into the building and Israel arrived shortly afterwards in a sleek SLK Mercedes-Benz, accompanied by at least eight men dressed in black. People started testifying about what had happened to them since the weight loss and miracle money appeared. Despite being given permission by the prophet to conduct interviews with them, the men in black would not allow this. However, Hercules Bootcamp chief executive and head trainer Singwa Silinga said losing weight spontaneously was humanly impossible and fat could not just be prayed away. Eastern Cape Council of Churches acting chief executive Lulama Ntshingwa said the council would be having a meeting soon to discuss the relevance of such churches. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share