Shedding 40% of her weight changes woman s life, writes Siyamtanda Capa To be able to wear a pair of jeans and shop without feeling as though the whole world was judging the food and clothing she was buying, was all Amanda Pruissen ever wanted. Having made a life-changing journey in losing close to 50kg an astonishing 40% of what she weighed just over a year ago the Port Elizabeth woman can finally do that. After a year of intense training and disciplined eating, Pruissen, 38, has not only shed almost half of her weight, but she has taken it upon herself to inspire others who find themselves in the position she was once in. Her life had become one of hiding, where she declined every invitation to go out and rather stayed at home in her sweat pants. When she did go out, she would fill up her shopping cart at different shopping centres in fear of being recognised and further judged for the items she had bought. Although Pruissen had grown up overweight and even recalls her mother taking her to a Weigh-Less meeting when she was only 11, it was not until Christmas Day 2015 and weighing 123.3kg, that she decided to take control of her life. Two days later she went on an eating programme. Pruissen has since lost 48.7kg in the last year and is only 1.1kg away from her goal weight. I was sitting with my family and we were going through pictures. And when I saw those pictures I could not believe that was me. I decided that I would never spend another Christmas that way, she said. I had already spent the day ashamed that people were looking at my plate and saying [to themselves] oh that s why she s so big, that s what she eats . It was so embarrassing and I knew I had a problem and I knew I had to deal with it. At this point, she had only three items in her wardrobe that fitted her and would wear only tights as she refused to accept her actual size 22. The successful weight loss comes after several attempts when Pruissen tried many popular weight-loss programmes and failed each time. I have been a year-to-year dieter and I have gone from the low to high numbers each year. This time it was only because I really wanted to turn my life around. It has been a struggle for me. As a child I would have a different meal plan and eat different meals from the rest of the family. My food was cooked separately and at that point I knew, there is an issue here, she said. From cutting out junk food and walking every day, Pruissen started what she describes as a journey that has changed her views on life in general. I have made decisions in my life that have impacted my weight and there are things that are now so engrained in me that they will never change, Pruissen said. On social media I found a whole world of people who were on the same journey as me and I would post my progress and this is how I monitored my weight loss while I picked up tips as I went on. I knew it wasn t going to be a quick fix and what I recommend is that you set yourself small goals, as focusing on the 50 kilos you have to lose immediately looks like an insurmountable mountain. Rather focus on the achievable goals. Pruissen said that previously she had become a hermit. I see myself differently now. I did not want to be seen [then] and if I saw anyone I knew in the shop, I would put my head down. The weight loss has further opened doors for Pruissen, who recently became a brand ambassador for the Port Elizabethbased fitness range Wear Its At. From being on social media I have connected with so many people who are trying to lose weight and they have reached out. I truly believe that if I can do it then anyone else can, because there is nothing special about me. I want to help change people s lives by helping them realise all they need to do is change small, simple things to restructure their lives. I know this is not something you can do on your own. . . it s too much, Pruissen said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share