Summerwood Primary Grade 1 pupils huddle around their teacher, Brizette Smith Picture: Eugene Coetzee Easy first day for some, but problems persist at other schools As squeals of excitement and toothy grins outweighed tears for many pupils arriving for their first day of big school in Nelson Mandela Bay, equally upbeat Education MEC Mandla Makupula shifted blame for teacher shortages to the premier s office. He also said a lack of teachers able to teach in Afrikaans exacerbated the situation in the northern areas. In Port Elizabeth on an education portfolio committee oversight visit, Makupula said teacher numbers were out of his hands. He said the lack of Afrikaans medium teachers forced the department to recruit teachers from other provinces, causing time delays. He said he was open to suggestions on how to fast-track appointments and would sit with unions and the district education office and schools to find solutions. Each department sends an annual recruitment plan to the premier s office . . . and you won t get the full complement of appointments you ask for. I would love to appoint all of them, but it is not up to me. For many schools not affected by teacher shortages, it was smooth sailing. For others, overcrowding, a lack of transport and late registration started the year on a sour note. Many township schools had to contend with poor attendance, walk-ins, last-minute cleaning and teacher shortages. The delayed start saw pupils roaming the streets or in class with nothing to do. Principals were unhappy about parents who left registration until the last minute. Reception areas at several schools were packed with parents who were yet to fill in enrolment forms. KwaMagxaki High principal Mwezi Qomfo said late registration had caused a major delay. We were hoping to be done with registration last year, but parents are still coming in with learners who need to be accommodated, he said. The school also had other challenges, including teacher shortages and textbooks that had not arrived. Overcrowding at B J Mnyanda Primary in New Brighton was a problem, with teachers tending to more than 50 pupils at a time. The acceptable teacher to pupil ratio is 37 pupils per teacher. More than 15 parents sat under a tree waiting for their children to be placed. One said she had not applied as she had been busy. For troubled Thubelihle High in New Brighton, poor attendance took the spotlight, with only 80 out of 450 pupils at school. The school received a dismal 3.2% matric pass mark for last year, The few pupils who did arrive appeared to have nothing to do, but some were seen cleaning classrooms. One teacher said her class was empty. Principal Mandla Toba insisted the first day had gone without any glitches. Everything is in place, stationery and textbooks are all here and the pupils are in class, he said. Only 17 Grade 12 pupils turned up. Ntombizanele Magcwaca, 20, said she was ready to work hard. I was heartbroken when the results came out. I even considered going to another school, she said. I decided to stay because I love the school. I believe we can turn this around by having extra classes . . . and applying ourselves. Provincial education spokesman Mali Mtima said the department had sent a team to township schools and would compile a report on those in dire need. In the northern areas, school for the most part got off to a good start, with late registration a major problem. At Malabar Primary, more than 30 parents waited anxiously for their turn to meet principal Crispin Abrahams. He said the school had sent out a notice last year about registration, but some parents did not adhere to this call . At least three primary and one high school had to start without books or stationery. At Parkside and Gelvandale primary schools, no textbooks or stationery had arrived, while Papenkuil Primary was waiting for stationery. Principals said they had been assured the items would be delivered by the end of the week. At Woolhope Secondary in Malabar, principal Julian Govender said they were waiting for certain textbooks. It was also not all smiles at Booysen Park High, where principal Ivan Martins had to deal with 72 late registrations. The school is already over capacity with 1 212 pupils registered, which is more than 40 kids per class, he said. In Greenbushes, there was no first day of school for about 1 000 pupils after their transport failed to arrive. The pupils from the Kuyga community attend the Yellow Woods, St Albans, Island Reserve, Colleen Glen and Van Stadens schools. Angry residents vowed to march to the Department of Education offices in search of a solution. Some parents marched to St Albans Primary, threatening to close the school should transport issues not be addressed. St Albans school governing body chairman Cyril Fortuin held an impromptu meeting with the parents and reassured them he would give them answers today. School resumed and teachers handed out stationery and textbooks. At most suburban schools academic activities started promptly, with Grade 1s introduced to teachers and tackling fun tasks. Grade 1 pupils at Clarendon Park Primary in Walmer were colouring in and developing number skills, while their counterparts at Summerwood in Summerstrand began the day by drawing a picture of themselves. Erica Girls Primary in Mount Croix was abuzz with activity. At Parsons Hill Primary a few tears were shed, but otherwise the morning went well. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share