The SABC has announced a series of scheduling changes to its SABC 2 TV channel in an attempt to win back Afrikaans viewers and cement it as an all inclusive family channel . The broadcaster announced the changes at a media briefing in Johannesburg on Wednesday. The changes effective from March 6 will see the introduction and return of several Afrikaans series and game shows as well as a two-hour Afrikaans-language block from 6pm to 8pm on Mondays and Thursdays. SABC spokesman Kaizer Kganyago told TshisaLIVE there were a number of factors in deciding the changes but the broadcaster s decision to increase the amount of Afrikaans content on the station was partly in response to it losing Afrikaans viewers. We made a number of changes to SABC 2 s schedule in 2014 where we moved some Afrikaans content away from the channel. We have acknowledged that we lost a few viewers with those changes. We were concerned and we are aiming to bring these audiences back and keep them on the channel by now providing more content for them Kaizer said. The changes will also see soapie 7de Laan move from its current 7pm time slot to 6pm. The soapie has been hit by an exodus of stars and declining viewership numbers. It also reportedly ran out of money late last year to pay its staff. Kaizer would not comment on the reasons for the soapie s time change but said that the broadcaster still had full confidence in the show. Our latest announcement shows that we still have confidence in the show. We would have cut it if we felt that it was a problem Kaizer said. Although the bulk of the new content on the show is Afrikaans a number of English shows have been introduced including a gospel lifestyle show hosted by popular Metro FM and Radio2000 radio host Thami Ngubeni entitled Life with Thami and a show hosted by comedians Tumi Morake and Alan Committee entitled Red Cake Not The Cooking Show. Kaizer said that the changes were introduced to make the channel an all-inclusive family channel . The changes are not only about Afrikaans. The Afrikaans viewers is not the only the factor. SABC 2 is an all-inclusive family channel. It is not an Afrikaans channel Kaizer said. See a list of the new shows on the channel below. The Kliphard (Music chart show): Mondays at 7pm from February 6. Fees van die Ongenooides (Mini-series): Tuesdays at 7pm from February 7. Geure van die Vallei (Cooking show): Wednesdays at 7pm from February 8. Red Cake Not The Cooking Show: Fridays at 7pm from February 10 Life with Thami (Lifestyle talk show): Saturdays at 6pm from February 11. Soul d Out Sessions (Music show): Sundays at 2pm from February 12 Beter Assie Bure (Game show): Thursdays at 7pm from February 16 Bone of my Bones (Series): Wednesdays at 9:30pm from March 1 Swartwater 2 (series): Tuesdays at 7pm from March 14 Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share