Dancing his way to the top, Cape Town born dancer and theatre lover Darren Greeff will be gracing the stage in Port Elizabeth with the cast of Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat as dance captain next week. From a young age Greeff, 27, has been obsessed with music so much so that he left school at the age of 14 to pursue his passion in dancing. I used to study Michael Jackson s music videos and tried to copy all his dance routines. It was then that my mom decided to enrol me in dance classes, and I was hooked from day one, he said. From then on, there was nothing else he wanted to do. I cannot ever listen to a song without picturing a dance piece, lighting, props and so on, the musical theatre graduate from The Waterfront Theatre College in Cape Town said. After completing his studies in 2007, Greeff took on a role as a choreographer for corporate events and an assistant director to the late Keith Galloway. With an impressive 18 years in the performing arts industry, Greeff has always loved being on stage and performing. Since moving into the role of resident creative at Pieter Toerien Productions, he has fallen in love with all the behind the scenes where he gets to look after the show, the cast and everything in between. There is also a lot of excitement, as every day there are new challenges to face and solve. Theatre is not for the fainthearted, and you d be surprised at how much work goes in before the audience get to experience the magic of theatre. He compared the experience to an iceberg, where the bulk of the ice is under the water and what you see poking out is just one quarter . It s a job I live and breathe, and it s a job I could never imagine my life without, he said. Greeff also teaches modern dance, tap and ballet to advanced students through his teaching qualifications for the Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing based in London. Previously, Greeff performed nearly 900 performances of The Phantom of the Opera in over 11 countries worldwide. I adored being a part of Phantom of the Opera. Being able to hear that gorgeous score being played by a live orchestra every evening was so special and something that would never get old, he said, adding that he got goosebumps every night watching the chandelier go up while the overture was being played. This job becomes such a big part of your life that each show holds life milestones, he said. Greeff s first taste of a large theatre production was performing in Cats in 2009. He also performed in Singin in the Rain in 2015. Greeff was also a contestant on the first season of So You Think You Can Dance South Africa in 2008, which he said was a whirlwind experience, but really changed my life and moulded me into a versatile performer . As dance captain for Pieter Toerien s production of Joseph and the Amazing Technicolour Dreamcoat, Greeff is in charge of everything seen on stage regarding the performers. I have to maintain the show to the original direction by Paul Warwick Griffin and choreography by Duane Alexander while still letting the performers grow within their performance. I am also responsible for looking after the cast offstage, he said. Greeff is also required to know the show backwards because if any of the performers suffer an injury he has to step in for them sometimes halfway through a show . According to Greeff, Port Elizabeth audiences can expect a show that is modern, quirky and highly energetic. In this show, there is something for everyone from incredible sound and exciting lighting, to sizzling costumes and award-winning choreography, and more. I won t give too much away, you ll want to come see for yourself, he said. Greeff s other achievements include being the South African tap dancing champion for three years running and placing second in the world championships. I competed while I was training and won many awards, which included best dancer, best choreography and a few more, he said. How to win tickets to Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share