ALL THINGS HAIR: Abby Mandulo owns Abby s Beauty Salon in Western Road, Central Picture: EUGENE COETZEE From backyard braids to building a salon business When Abby Mandulo, 34, was a young girl who braided hair for fun, little did she know that she would go on to become a sought-after stylist in Port Elizabeth. What started as a hobby earning her some extra cash while she was a pupil at Imizamo Yethu High School turned into a career option for Mandulo, who now owns Abby s Beauty Salon in Western Road, Central. With her premises strategically located near the busy city centre, Mandulo hooks up her clients with hairstyles ranging from cornrows to Brazilian, Peruvian and Malaysian hair weaves and everything else in between. She studied hairdressing at Port Elizabeth College and her professional experience with hair dates as far back as 2001. This is when she started as a hairstylist at Friends Hair Salon in Central and made it her life s ambision to learn as much as she could. Her skill in the art of hairdressing is evident in the way Mandulo handles hair and effortlessly installs weaves while reassuring her customer as she goes. After her stint at Friends, Mandulo became an independent rent-a-chair stylist at Trendy Hair Salon on Parliament Street before moving on to several other hair salons in the city. According to Mandulo, this period helped her build a big enough client base to establish Abby s Beauty Salon in 2009. I have always been passionate about hairdressing, it is what I have always wanted to do. Looking at the rapid rate my clientele was growing, I knew that it was time I opened my own hair salon. Opening the salon was not without challenges as Mandulo had to procure equipment and find suppliers, which meant spending less time doing what she loved. Many of my clients would complain that I was unavailable to do their hair, not knowing that my responsibilities had grown from just that modest chair I called mine. With my own place I even had to consider the safety of my premises with regards to alarms as well, Mandulo said. The business has grown so much since it started, even though I advertise occasionally I found that I m not under pressure when it comes to marketing as word of mouth has ensured the survival of this business. She employs four stylists, who each have a duty in the hair-weaving process. My clients have always been vocal about wanting me to personally do their hair but with running a business it became hard. My team and I now have a formula where each one has a duty and I do the final touches, Mandulo said. She attributed the success of the business to closely monitoring and maintaining a healthy relationship with stylists as well as assuring her clients that she is still involved in their hair. Mandulo said she chooses to do her own thing rather than focus on who goes in and out of neighbouring hair salons. I m at a point in my career where I refer people to other salons when it gets really hectic over here. I also believe that even though we are competing as stylists, there is nothing wrong with helping each other out, the mother of two said. Her clients range from women based in all corners of the city to American exchange students at NMMU. Mandulo, who was a finalist on two seasons of the Sofn free hair competition aired on SABC1, said she was looking into branching out and opening salons in towns across the province. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share