The ANC will use its January 8 statement, to be delivered by President Jacob Zuma on Sunday, to create a path of self-correction . This is according to the ANC s head of organising, Fikile Mbalula, who is also Sports and Recreation Minister. Speaking before the ANC s 105th birthday celebration to be held at the Orlando Stadium in Soweto, Mbalula said the party s leaders were confident that Zuma s January 8 statement would galvanise disaffected supporters enough for it to claw back support after last year s disastrous local government election. He said it was crucial for the ANC to launch a strong comeback after losing key metros such as Tshwane, Johannesburg and Nelson Mandela Bay in the municipal elections. He said build-up events during the week and Sunday s birthday bash would serve to reconnect the party with its core constituency. ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe told party supporters in Evaton in the Vaal Triangle on Tuesday that the reason people are angry with us is because they see us as self-serving . But Mbalula, flanked by ANC Gauteng secretary Hope Papo and national spokesman Zizi Kodwa, expressed optimism that Zuma s speech would boost the morale of supporters. The ANC is expected to hold several major events this year to discuss and decide on its future leaders, including a consultative conference with veterans and stalwarts, followed by a policy conference and, ultimately, an elective conference in December. The January 8 statement is crucial, especially after the election results in Gauteng, Mbalula said. The ANC needs to come back [strongly] in the next elections and work began immediately after the last elections. [The January 8 statement] is an opportunity to reclaim lost ground and create a path to selfcorrection. Mbalula also distanced the ANC from an announcement by the Gauteng Liquor Board that trading hours for alcohol retailers would be relaxed for the weekend s festivities. He said the ANC had nothing to do with the move, which the liquor authority has since canned. Gauteng Economic Development MEC Lebogang Maile said he would take the heat for the drama caused by the liquor board s decision. His boss, premier David Makhura, said he had requested that the controversial weekend pass be cancelled as soon as he heard about it. Shortly after the decision was reversed yesterday Maile told eNCA that the ANC was not to be blamed for the move. I will take responsibility because the liquor board reports to me &#8230; You can t blame the ANC, he said. With the spotlight set firmly on the ANC, Mbalula warned leaders and party members not to behave in a manner that would bring the ANC into disrepute. The ANC has organised 800 buses to ferry supporters to the 40 000-seater stadium, which it plans to fill to capacity. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share