FED UP: Ntomboxolo Nyengane lives right next to the dam of water caused by a large leak in the Joe Slovo area which has also caused grassland to turn into a quagmire, right. There are further complaints that the area is a breeding ground for mosquitos. Picture: Judy de Vega Thousands of litres of fresh water have been gushing out from under a communal tap for the past three weeks in a Port Elizabeth township. Despite several attempts to get the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality to fix the underground leak in Aluta Continua Street in Joe Slovo West, it was still flowing yesterday, creating massive pools in front of residents homes. It has even caused a muddy mess in front of Ward 41 councillor Simphiwe Tyukana s office. The leak persists as the metro battles a water crisis due to decreasing dam levels and overconsumption. The overusage has led to punitive water restrictions, meaning households are charged higher tariffs for exceeding the limit of 400 litres a day. In Joe Slovo West, residents fear the water will damage the foundation of their homes as well as their furniture. Ntomboxolo Nyengane, 56, whose home is about 100m from the communal tap, said the smell from the stagnant pool was unbearable. It also attracted mosquitoes which fly into her house. We have had this problem since December, she said. The water is a result of an underground leak from the communal tap. We reported the leakage several times to councillor Tyukana and the municipality, but nothing has happened. We keep having water cuts but nothing is done with the water flowing in our streets. The water stinks and it is worse on hot days. Ntombomzi Vena, 57, said people were worried about their houses. My newly built RDP house is surrounded by water and I am worried that the foundation will be damaged, Vena said. We have heard the municipality talking about restrictions to save water, but nothing has been done regarding the water leaks in our area. Instead of fixing the problem, we get water cuts about four times a week.&#8221; Tyukana said he had reported the matter several times to the municipality. He provided several reference numbers. The only thing I have managed to get is reference numbers, he said. Our streets are flooded with clean water, but there are complaints that there is not enough water in the Bay. We always keep extra water buckets because of cuts, which could be avoided if the municipality can fix these leaks. Municipal spokesman Mthubanzi Mniki said officials would follow up on the matter and also see what had caused the delay in fixing the leak. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share