The Mandela Bay Development Agency officially took over the reins of Port Elizabeth s R2-billion stadium this week. This after the Nelson Mandela Bay municipality cut ties with stadium operator Access Management last month. The MBDA was assigned the responsibility of running the stadium by the council in October after it decided not to outsource the management of the stadium. Spokesman Luvuyo Bangazi said yesterday the MBDA had taken over this week. Effective January 1, the MBDA officially assumed the role of managing the stadium as an agent of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, he said. The MBDA has been, and is currently, engaged in a handover process with the previous stadium operator which is expected to be finalised during January. The municipality s contract with Access Management, which has managed the stadium for seven years, ended last month. The contract was on a month-to-month basis since July. City manager Johann Mettler said the MBDA had overseen the contract with Access since July and would not have a problem settling in. They are prepared for the running of the stadium and I believe everything is on track, he said. The contract with Access has come to an end. The only outstanding legal matter is before the high court and it will proceed as per the court processes. The metro filed a civil claim with the Port Elizabeth High Court in November. The municipality claimed in court papers that it had been forced to pay Access R200-million more than it should have over a six-year period. Mettler said according to the Municipal Finance Management Act he was obliged to report any criminal and corrupt activities. Bangazi said the MBDA would advertise the position of stadium manager this month. On the matter of the stadium manager, the MBDA board has resolved to go to market during January to recruit a suitably qualified and experienced person to take overall responsibility of managing the NMB Stadium on a day-to-day basis, he said. A significant number of staff that worked with Access signed contracts to work with the MBDA. A number of people have chosen to pursue careers elsewhere. The recruitment process is ongoing. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share