Education MEC Mandla Makupula who was in Port Elizabeth on an oversight visit this week, says the lack of teachers able to teach in Afrikaans is exacerbating the situation in the northern areas Picture: Eugene Coetzee Afrikaans teacher shortage hits hard A vacuum of Afrikaans-based tuition in Port Elizabeth s northern areas is a ticking time bomb for already troubled schooling in the area which has its roots in an escalating absence of training, educators warn. But the dire shortage of staff who teach in Afrikaans is by no means exclusive to schools in the area and is affecting education nationwide, with the blame being laid squarely on the unavailability of adequate training facilities. Teacher shortages in Nelson Mandela Bay have, in part, been attributed by the Department of Education to delays in recruiting Afrikaans-medium teachers from other provinces, but education experts and principals say there are simply not enough to go around given the dearth of training. Northern Areas Education Forum secretary Richard Draai said the biggest tragedy for the northern areas schools was the closure of the training colleges. The problem came in when the powers-that-be were not aware of the consequences should those colleges close down, Draai said. It has created a major problem for our community where you don t find teachers with that skill set anymore and it has become a very scarce commodity. Now we sit with the dilemma of having to source teachers from other provinces. The solution is simple the colleges should be reopened because this situation is dire. He was unable to provide the number of teachers required in the northern areas as principals were at a meeting yesterday to discuss the final declaration for the year. When teacher shortages in the northern areas took centre stage in September 2014, DA MPL Edmund van Vuuren said he had challenged Education MEC Mandla Makupula to be transparent about his plans for the critical shortages and had even put forth solutions. Van Vuuren said yesterday his suggestions which included reopening the two teaching colleges in Port Elizabeth had fallen on deaf ears. There are no institutions that will give you Afrikaans-speaking teachers at the moment in the Eastern Cape, he said. This is only available in the Northern and Western Cape, while teachers coming from universities are not fluent in Afrikaans. He said the problems had arisen when Dower College closed in 2000. If we do not find a way to produce Afrikaans-speaking teachers, the northern areas will burn, Van Vuuren said. Education specialist Professor Susan van Rensburg said there was a dire need for Afrikaans institutions to be reintroduced, especially in the northern areas where there was heavy reliance on the language in the schools. There is definitely a gap among the students who wish to become Afrikaans-medium teachers, because there is a very real interest for those teachers, she said. But it is not a question of interest and rather a question of who is afforded the bursaries. The general problem is that there were institutions like Dower College, which was an Afrikaans-teaching facility, and NMMU s Second Avenue campus, which was a bilingual teachers training college. The Department of Education seems to not take note of the role Afrikaans plays for many people. We can t just ignore Afrikaans, we have to bring it back. Makupula said on Wednesday a lack of teachers able to teach in Afrikaans exacerbated the situation in the northern areas. Makupula, who was in Port Elizabeth on a three-day oversight visit with the education portfolio committee, said the lack of Afrikaans teachers forced the department to recruit them from other provinces, causing delays. However, provincial legislature education portfolio committee chairman Fundile Gade, who was in Uitenhage yesterday, said the department had made significant strides in implementing solutions and only a few schools were missing Afrikaans-medium teachers based on their own choices. Gade said they had been told there were no more than 10 schools in the northern areas in need of Afrikaans-medium teachers but prioritising the shortage could create other issues. The provincial government would have to make a clear plan in anticipation of the other languages [such as Sesotho and IsiXhosa and IsiZulu] that could raise the same issue, Gade said. NMMU education professor Nokhanyo Mayaba said while the university equipped teachers in languages, they were not trained to teach technical subjects like maths and physical science in Afrikaans or the other languages. If students are doing a method module, they would be taught in that language either English, Xhosa or Afrikaans, Mayaba said. She said many Afrikaans-speaking teachers would opt to teach in English as they had chosen to major in English at university. Chapman High School principal William Abrahams said the Gelvandale school was in dire need of Afrikaans-medium teachers. But Port Elizabeth students who were interested in studying to become Afrikaans-medium teachers were not being given bursaries because there were no colleges in the city. As a result of this, the northern areas schools were losing out on potential Afrikaans-medium teachers. And the teachers who do come to our school we have to retrain internally in our Afrikaans subjects, Abrahams said. The problem will just get worse in a few years because people are exiting the teaching field. It is concerning. Hillside High School principal Nythil Paulsen said the pupils did not perform to their maximum potential as more than 50% of pupils failed maths and physics when they were not taught in their home language. There are subjects where the pupils must be taught in English even though it is not their home language, he said. This affects the pupils in that they will not do as well as they would if they were taught in their home language. &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share