There is no shortcut to the desired hourglass figure that these body trainers supposedly help to achieve After New Year, people will try anything to shift weight and bizarre trends come and go as celebrities such as the Kardashians champion them on social media. However, like all fads, they come and go for a reason and here are a few dubious lifestyle and fitness trends to say good riddance to! Waist-training: Wait, are we back in the 16th century? Waist- trainers mimic the corset that women wore in the 1500s, but despite the comeback, they are in no way more comfortable. We should ve seen the red flag for the mere fact that these body trainers can restrict breathing and cause acid reflux. Unfortunately, there is no shortcut to the desired hourglass figure that these body trainers supposedly help to achieve. Cupping: This is an ancient form of alternative medicine where a therapist puts cups on the patients back to create suction. Other than the strange marks this procedure leaves behind, it doesn t guarantee muscle healing and shouldn t be viewed as a miracle cure for injuries or clotted blood. It is debatable whether this technique, that is possibly superfluous, is worth the eerie marks it leaves on your back. Sauna suits: This method of heavy sweating has been used by boxers for fast weight loss before bouts. However, it doesn t speak for the potentially dangerous health implications of this method. Excessive sweating leads to electrolyte imbalances in your body. Sweating in a sauna suit can lead to dehydration, kidney failure and even death, says Pierre Louw, owner of the Fitness Directory of My Health and Fitness. See myhealthandfitness.co.za Not all new trends are bad and the following trends are proving to be more than just a fad: Body weight training: The truth is gyms are expensive and not everyone can afford to exercise at the hippest gym in town. However, everybody needs to do exercise, so what now? Body weight training is the answer. These exercises are completely free and don t require any equipment. Other benefits include more lean muscle mass, healthier blood cholesterol levels and lower stress levels. Wearable Tech: Wearable technology might not be imperative for all, but it can make a big difference in the life of someone who is unaware of a fatal heart condition. The data collected by these wearables can predict potentially fatal health events. Group training: The shift from one-on- one training to group training was bound to happen sooner or later. This alternative is not only more affordable, but also a lot more fun (three is a party, right?). On some days we need the added motivation, and in these cases it s refreshing to have more than one person to help you through the different workouts, says Louw. What works for one person might not work for another. But remember to have fun and never compromise your health. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share