KNEE INJURY: Loose forward Chris Cloete of the Southern Kings Picture: MICHAEL SHEEHAN EP may name captain for Super Rugby season at camp The Southern Kings will be without loose forwards Chris Cloete and Sintu Manjezi (both knee injuries) and hooker Tango Balekile (shoulder) when they play Border in a friendly in East London on Saturday. While the trio will be involved in full contact training with the squad this week, they will not be considered for the Border game. They will, however, be available to play in the Kings friendly against the SWD Eagles in Port Elizabeth on February 11. The Kings stepped up their Super Rugby preparations this week when they moved to Port Alfred for an intensive camp. Apart from team bonding, it is expected the Kings will name their captain for Super Rugby during the stay in Port Alfred. We are looking forward to spending time together and to prepare for the friendly against Border, Kings head coach Deon Davids said. The idea is to workshop and to get an idea at the end of the camp about who is going to lead us in Super Rugby. The guys are slowly but surely taking on leadership and responsibility, and we will continue to the decision on the captain. The boys will al- so get a chance to meet the people in the rural ar- eas and we will have a coach- ing clinic, Davids said. Border rugby chief Dumisani Mhani is hoping the Southern Kings send their best team for the game at the Buffalo City Stadium. That will mean we start our year on a high note if they give us their best side for stiff competition, he said. Feelings will run high in the match because the Kings are likely to feature former Border players like Wandile Patuma, Masixole Banda, Onke Dubase, Mazakole Mapimpi and Ntabeni Dukisa. The match will be about giving our new players opportunities to show us what they have, Mhani said. New recruits in the Border team this year are Thabiso Mngomezulu, Abongile Nalo, Luzuko Nyabaza, Lwando Mabenga, Nathan Church and Lelethu Gcilitshane. Border are aspiring to win promotion to the Currie Cup Premier Division at the end of the season. The Kings kick off their Super Rugby campaign against the Jaguares at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth on February 25. The Jaguares paid a heavy price for their 61-7 win over Uruguay in a pre-season friendly. Scrumhalf Martin Landajo suffered a fracture of his fibula and had to undergo surgery. The timeframe for his return has not been confirmed, but he is expected to miss at least the opening month of the competition. In their second warm-up match, the Jaguares beat an Argentine XV 68-14. It was very important to get some game time, Jaguares wing Matias Orlando said. We have been training hard, but the pace of training compared to that of a match is very different and it was what we needed, to know where we are and what to focus on going forward. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share