A grieving Ngcweti Ncwane tries to comfort his mother, Ayanda, at the memorial service for his father, gospel singer Sfiso Ncwane Picture: Rogan Ward Those close to late gospel star Sfiso Ncwane have been left disgusted by fraudsters who have illegally turned his funeral service into a money making scheme by selling pirate DVDs for R10 on the streets of Durban. According to local newspaper Isolezwe DVDs of the singer s funeral service on 10 December at Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban have apparently been selling like hot cakes by street vendors. The paper reports that on Durban s bustling Warwick Avenue in the city center vendors can be heard shouting Sfiso Ncwane funeral DVD for R10 . Speaking to TshisaLIVE this week Ncwane Communications spokesperson Thobile Mchunu expressed disgust over the DVDs. We are deeply disappointed by this as a company. It is disgusting that people have chosen to take such a dignified occasion and turned it into entertainment and then try to make money from it. It is not right and very disrespectful she said. Thobile urged people not to support the sale of the DVDs and warned that they would be involving the police. We are trying to find the culprits and we know who some of them are but to be honest we do not even know where to start. We will lay any charges we can against the people we find she added. Thobile said that they have not notified Sfiso s widow Ayanda about the DVD as it would upset her immensely. Ayanda does not know about this because she is not on social media and does not read newspapers. We hope that we can sort this out before she finds out because we do not want to upset her while she is mourning Thobile said. The award-winning gospel star died on 5 December after being rushed to a Fourways hospital where he was diagnosed with kidney failure. It has been just over one month since Sfiso s sudden death sent shock waves through the nation and his family are still grappling to come to terms with the loss. As the world welcomed in a new year Sfiso s widow Ayanda broke her silence last week. I found it fitting to take a moment from my silent mourning and heavy painful grieving to say thank you to you all for showing deep love for my husband. Thank you for allowing me to mourn in peace and in private as I start a very strange and new journey as widow she said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share