Quality travel writing, whether fiction or non-fiction, has the power to transport the reader as it captures topics as diverse as politics, society, religion and economics, while also bringing the food, art and culture of a place to life in evocative ways. The Telegraph drew up this list of the 20 of the best travel titles: 1. On the Road, by Jack Kerouac: Published in 1957 and based on the travels of Kerouac and his friends across the US, On the Road is a defining work of post-war generations living life against a backdrop of jazz, poetry and drugs. 2. As I Walked Out One Midsummer Morning is Laurie Lee s sequel to Cider with Rosie, which detailed his life in post- World War 1 Gloucestershire. 3. Naples 44 is a military memoir of World War 2 written by British travel writer and novelist Norman Lewis. 4. Coasting describes Jonathan Raban s single-handed 6 437km voyage around Britain in 1982 in an old restored sailing craft, the Gosfield Maid. 5. Travels with Charley: In Search of America depicts a 1960 road trip by novelist John Steinbeck in the company of his standard poodle, Charley. 6. Notes From a Small Island, by US author Bill Bryson, is a humorous take on Great Britain and first appeared in 1995. 7. Homage to Catalonia, by George Orwell, documents his experiences and observations in the Spanish Civil War in the 1930s. 8. The Beach, by Alex Garland, is a spellbinding story about a young backpacker who escapes his life through travel. Leonardo DiCaprio starred in the 2000 film. 9. The Great Railway Bazaar recounts Paul Theroux s four-month journey by train in 1973 from London through Europe, the Middle East, the Indian subcontinent and Southeast Asia, and his return via the Trans-Siberian Railway. 10. The Road to Oxiana, by Robert Byron, was first published in 1937 and is considered the first example of great travel writing. It captures his journey through the Middle East via Beirut, Jerusalem, Baghdad and Teheran to the river Amu Darya, part of the border between Afghanistan and Russia. 11. Venice sees the legendary Welsh writer, Jan Morris, using vivid prose, humour and irony to portray an eccentric city. 12. In Patagonia was the masterpiece that made writer Bruce Chatwin famous overnight. It s an exhilarating look at a place that retains the exotic mystery of a far-off, unseen land. 13. The Sun Also Rises, by Ernest Hemingway, is the quintessential novel of the Lost Generation and is a classic example of his spare but powerful writing style. A poignant look at the disillusionment and angst of the post-World War 1 generation, its characters journey from the wild nightlife of 1920s Paris to the bullfighting rings of Spain. 14. Wild Coast, Travels on South America s Untamed Edge, by John Gimlette, is an entertaining and eye-opening journey through Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana among the least-known places in South America. 15. A Short Walk in the Hindu Kush, by Eric Newby, is described as a comic masterpiece, intensely English and understated . 16. Arabian Sands, by Wilfred Thesiger, focuses on the author s travels across the Empty Quarter of the Arabian Peninsula between 1945 and 1950. 17. Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas , by Hunter S Thompson: Thompson s tale of a long weekend road trip has gone down in the annals of US pop culture as one of the strangest journeys ever undertaken. 18. Our Man in Havana, by Graham Greene: The classic Cuban spy story published in 1959 is an espionage thriller, a penetrating character study and a political satire that still resonates today. 19. The Journals of Captain Cooke: The 18th century British explorer s records of his groundbreaking journeys to the Pacific can still be seen in the British Library in London. 20. Among the Russians, by Colin Thubron: Offering a fresh perspective on the final tumultuous years of the Soviet Union and an exquisitely poetic travelogue, Among the Russians is vivid, compelling travel writing at its best. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share