Asenathi Jack, left, and Kianna Banton, both 6, with teacher Norma de Preez Picture: Judy de Vega Luyolo Nqakula, left, and SWakhi Dyariwe at Kwano&#8217;s Meat Corner Picture: Isozama Productions Bhongolesizwe Makaza, left, and Luthando Matutu at Kwano&#8217;s Meat Corner Picture: Isozama Productions Unathi Mtotoba, middle, and friends ,from left, Sonwabe Marwana, Bongiwe Stuurman, Tsima Mpushe and Zanele Tys at Kwano&#8217;s Meat Corner Picture: Isozama Productions Guests, from left, Vuyo Ogunniyi, Zintle Gwavu, Mandlakazi Skefile, Bulie Xego and Nqabisa Gwelana at the SPAR Delight in Summer Sizzling Sessions Picture: Londeka Dlamini Actors from left, Siobhan Hibberd, Lauren Palmer and Georgia Palmer at Pemads Little Theatre&#8217;s Twelfth Night Awards Picture: Ivor Markman Pemads president Denzil Levy and committee member Linda-Louise Swain Picture: Ivor Markman Charli Mills, left, and Caera Staples at St Dominic&#8217;s Priory School Picture: supplied Joshua Kolesky durin St Dominic&#8217;s Priory School&#8217;s orientation Picture: supplied Hello my darlings, as people were getting ready to go back to work, and some go back to school, others like myself were preparing to party the weekend away. Who doesn t want to end off the festive season with a bang before the daily grind kicks in? That was the fantasy, at any rate. The truth is that in PE, after Christmas and New Year, there is often a lull of a week or so when there is pitifully little happening on the party scene. So last Friday night, yours truly sat at home watching Bridget Jones s Baby where Dr McDreamy was appearing. If you ve seen that film you probably were left wondering, just as I was, what the heck happened to Renee Zellweger s face? Why did she go and get some fancy doctor to rearrange her face? She doesn t even look like the Renee Zellweger we all knew and loved, and I think it s a darn shame. Anyway, in the hopes of salvaging a rather dull weekend I headed out last Saturday morning to trawl the stalls at the first Valley Market of the year. The market gets better and better each time. My favourite stall has to be Foongs: I love their dim sum and find their food simply delicious. I also tried the new artisanal fruit lollies called St Paletas just what I needed considering the summer heat we ve been having! It doesn t seem like there were any Janu-worry blues for the Valley Market crowd, who were spending liberally as usual. Which stokvel are you guys with? The people want to know! On Sunday night I headed down to the Kwano s Meat Corner Festive Flashback Sunday. Kwano s braai is first grade and like any proudly South African girl, I love my meat and will make any excuse to enjoy a tshisanyama. The vibe is always good there and the DJ s played local-is-lekker music that saw people dancing the night away now there was the pre-work party tonic I needed! The women were dressed to the nines and it seems like this summer less is definitely going to be more! Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share