&nbsp; St Francis Bay freelance journalist Beth Cooper-Howell takes a look at the other side of life in Woman on Top, her weekly lifestyle column for The Herald &nbsp; As a natural tree-hugger type, there s little that riles me more than unhappy children. When I grew up and discovered a world full of crooks and money-worshippers, I decided that the very least we could do was to give kids a good time before reality set in. When my kids were very small, I d thought that my mommy friends and I were doing a good job. We learned how to make play-dough. We baked cupcakes and did what parenting experts advised went on long walks to poke at puddles, gather snails and marvel at wet leaves. But the more children grow and become part of modern society, the more I worry that we re failing miserably. I feel a campaign coming on. My father recently sent me an article by Peter Gray titled Today s Children Suffer From Severe Lack of Play . Wouldn t think so, at first glance, would you? Tots are still swinging, digging in sandpits, finger-painting, falling into mud and making a horse out of your Coricraft sofa arm. But that s not all they re doing when really, that s all they should be doing, according to Gray. THE GOOD OLD DAYS About 50 years ago, things changed dramatically and we re now feeling the consequences. Before the sixties, kids had two educations, Gray says : one was school (which wasn t as hectic as it is now) and the other was hunter-gathering. You don t need to be an indigenous tribe member to benefit from hunter-gatherer skills. It s like a free lunch without any hidden costs: every child, everywhere, from New York to Nieu Bethesda, should be doing what their mini-ancestors did for thousands of years: playing. We played all weekend and all summer long. We had time to explore in all sorts of ways, and also time to become bored and figure out how to overcome boredom, time to get into trouble and find our way out of it, time to daydream, time to immerse ourselves in hobbies and time to read comics and whatever else we wanted to read rather than the books assigned to us, says Gray. Here s a scary fact: the United States has gradually been reducing children s opportunities to play and they re not the only ones. We ve increased the amount of schoolwork they do, piled on more homework and projects and developed a culture of adult-directed play, which basically means we organise their after-school life in the form of structured hobbies and sports. And the result? Children have less empathy than they did before, because traditional school is an authoritarian structure that involves competition more than cooperation; whereas free play is a democratic model where you still learn all the tough lessons life throws at you but over time and while having fun in an adult-free environment. In his book, Free to Learn, Gray argues that an increase in mental disorders in children is very much the result of a decline in children s freedom. It s a tough world out there, you might say, so we need to prepare them by filling their heads with facts and teaching them to negotiate the rat race. Stuff and nonsense, I say. Take away the iPads for a few days at a time, lobby for less academic stress and more free-for-all fun and watch a miracle happen. If we aren t brave enough to stand up for our children, who will? Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share