Angry parents protest Picture: YOLISWA SOBUWA Protesters demand children on waiting list must be enrolled, writes Yoliswa Sobuwa Angry parents whose children are on a waiting list for Alfonso Arries Primary School in Port Elizabeth vowed on Friday to keep the school closed until their children were enrolled. The parents blocked Old Uitenhage Road with burning tyres and rocks yesterday, preventing anyone from entering the gates of the Chatty school. With only 33 classrooms, the school caters for 1 200 pupils. But an extra 801 pupils have already been enrolled, with 266 still left on the school s waiting list. The parents stopped teaching at the school, saying it would resume only once their children were enrolled. Nomatamsanqa Masebe, a Grade 2 parent, said her daughter got ready for school every morning but had nowhere to go. She does not understand why she can t go to school like her friends, she said. Masebe said she had applied for her daughter to attend Alfonso Arries Primary in September. I can t afford to take her to another school, she said. Another parent, Mantombi John, said the education district was aware of the situation. As parents we feel like we are ignored, she said. We want our kids to get a better education. Our pleas are falling on deaf ears. John is trying to get her daughter a place in Grade 2. No parents want to see their children hanging around the streets with the wrong crowd because they cannot go to school, she said. Principal Andile Lucwaba said they had already exceeded the maximum pupils allowed. He said 763 pupils already did not have classrooms. I told the parents that I can only keep their children on the waiting list, which is what led to the protest. They cannot afford to take their kids to other schools. One primary school is not enough in the area. He said the school already needed 22 classrooms and 11 additional posts. We have met with the education district office and we expect a response by Monday. The parents have threatened that if nothing is done by Monday they will close all the neighbouring schools, he said. School governing body member Amanda Ganya said it was impossible for Alfonso Arries Primary to cater for more pupils. It is the only school in the area, but it cannot accommodate everyone. They should build two more schools in the area. Ganya said the chock-a-block school already needed more classrooms. We demand more classrooms and proper structures. Eastern Cape education department spokesman Malibongwe Mtima failed to comment. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share