HIGH HOPES: Southern Kings back division star Malcolm Jaer Picture: RUCHARD HUGGARD Flying wing Malcolm Jaer has warned rival Super Rugby teams that the Southern Kings will not be pushovers this year. The Kings are looking forward to the new campaign. We will definitely not be an easy team to beat in the new season, Jaer said. Despite his Sevens duties for the Blitzboks, Jaer said he remained fully committed to the Southern Kings. He also plans to put to good use the skills he learnt in the shortened format of the game when he plays Super Rugby. Thanks to Jaer s standout showings in Super Rugby last year, the 21-year-old caught the eye of national Sevens coach Neil Powell. He was included in the SA Sevens training camp ahead of the Sevens World Rugby Series and in the SA Sevens Academy side that played in the Dubai Sevens. I was part of the Blitzboks setup for six weeks. It was an exciting and overwhelming experience, Jaer said. The first week was tough because I had not played any Sevens rugby in four years, and therefore had a lot of adapting to do. I really learnt quite a lot in that period and there are things that I can implement here at the Southern Kings in the Super Rugby season. Jaer has his sights set on securing a regular place in the national Sevens side with the goal of representing South Africa at the Olympic Games in Tokyo in 2020. I am contracted to the Kings until October, and I am fully committed to the team, he said. I am hoping that after Super Rugby I can get involved with the Sevens again, and hopefully manage to qualify for the next Olympic team. That does not mean that I want to put the 15-man game aside. I m hoping I can do what guys like Kwagga Smith and Seabelo Senatla do play both Sevens and fifteens rugby. For now, the former SA Schools (2013) and SA U20 player is focused on getting ready for his second Super Rugby season with the Kings. The vibe and culture that we have going at the Southern Kings is great. We are also better prepared now than we were this time last year, Jaer said. The coaches have built a great culture and spirit of brotherhood. Even though there are a lot of new faces in the side, we have spent a lot of time together and are learning a lot from each other. The coaches, especially conditioning coach Nadus Nieuwoudt, have been doing a lot of hard work to make sure we are ready when the season starts. Before the team headed off on their break, Kings head coach Deon Davids hinted that some new faces may be on the way. I am happy with the squad that we have, but there are one or two positions I would maybe like to boost in the new year, he said. The Kings return to training on January 9. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share