The DA has accused the ANC of not caring about investment and jobs. This follows ANC criticism of Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga s recent trip to Taiwan to seek investment opportunities with the party charging that the visit was in conflict with South Africa s recognition of a One-China policy. The ANC was quoted yesterday as saying that government representatives who contravened national foreign policy should have their official passports confiscated. Responding to the ANC s criticism DA spokesman on international relations and cooperation, Stevens Mokgalapa, said the ANC had shown once again just how little it valued job-creating investment in South Africa with its petty hypocritical attack on Msimanga. With nine million jobless South Africans the DA praises the attempt by mayor Msimanga to encourage investment in South Africa. This is what our country needs to create jobs and fight poverty, he said. This simply isn t a priority for the ANC they are a party of cronyism fighting to protect corrupt interests. The people of Tshwane like the rest of South Africa come stone last. The reality is that their baseless attacks stem from their unwillingness to accept that they have lost control of many municipalities across South Africa. He reminded the ANC that neither it nor the national government it ran could dictate who DA mayors met with to obtain job-creating investment and that such international trips were allowed. Indeed the former ANC mayor of Tshwane Kgosientso Ramokgopa embarked on international trips to encourage growth including a 12day trip to the United States. The ANC should also be duly reminded so as to end their glaring hypocrisy that South Africa maintains relations with Taiwan through the South African Liaison Office in Taiwan. That the party of national government chooses to ignore this in order to score cheap political points demonstrates precisely why our country s foreign policy is such a mess Mokgalapa said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share