There has been a stampede of feet at the popular parkrun, with record turnouts this year for the free family fun run in Nelson Mandela Bay. First there was a 5km route at Hobie Beach in Summerstrand, but a new track is opening out at Lady Slipper on February 11 and shortly there also will be one at Sardinia Bay. Comrades Marathon guru Bruce Fordyce who introduced the international parkrun concept to South Africa five years ago will be here to run his 250th parkrun and open both new routes. Port Elizabeth parkrun ambassador and event director for Sardinia Bay Tamarin Ellis is overseeing both new routes and hopes to get one up and active in Uitenhage before the end of the year. I will be overseeing any new parkruns and the next one will be based at the Grass Roof: the route is all mapped out, she said. There are more than half a million registered parkrunners in South Africa. Nobody gets paid for parkrun and people always ask why the volunteers do it, but as Saturday comes and you see the families, the elderly folk, the smiles on their faces, you see how it brings the community together and how it changes people, she said. Some of my best friends I ve met through parkrun and it s very much a family environment. Extra routes have been overdue for the Friendly City. PE Hobie Beach parkrun extended its attendance record for a third consecutive week on January 21, with more than 1000 participants for the second week in a row. Hobie event director Werner de Lange said part of the appeal of parkrun was that absolutely anyone and everyone can do it and they do! Cindi and Craig Bester will be the event directors for the Lady Slipper course. Cindi describes herself as a walker, not a runner and says although she and Craig are on the road to losing weight and gaining in fitness, they get so much more than 5km of fresh air from the parkrun. It s a lovely, family-friendly event, people come with babies and prams, and we ve also made so many friends, Cindi said. We want to encourage groups from that side of town to do this parkrun because Hobie Beach is far for them to go. This is such a lovely venue as it is only 22km from Uitenhage and Despatch. As Craig points out, the distance from Sherwood to Hobie or to here is almost the same . The Besters said Falcon Rock owner Gary Gradwell had helped lay out the scenic circular trail, cutting back vegetation and building a wooden foot bridge on the last stretch of the route. It s an all-weather trail designed for mountain bikers by the late Lex Holmes, said Gradwell, which meant even after heavy rains you can run and even cycle it . Unlike the flat beachfront route, however, the Lady Slipper run has several hills, including one incline dubbed Sars Hill . It takes everything from you! jokes Cindi, although the nice thing is that towards the end it is all downhill . As event director, Ellis is now focusing on getting the run at Grass Roof ready for its mid- March opening. It s a complete zigzag course, up and down, and totally different from Hobie, so that gives variety to our parkruns in Port Elizabeth, she said. The stretch of the trail which borders on a new golf estate also gives runners the chance to spot eland and zebra, for example, and Ellis said on the route itself I ve seen buck every time I ve been out . Ellis said volunteers were always in demand to help with the administration. There is a lot of administration but if you have a good, solid core of volunteers it really does work. &nbsp; There have been record crowds at PE Hobie Beach parkrun this year Picture: Gillian McAinsh The parkrun is popular with families Picture: Gillian McAinsh Craig and Cindi Bester are the event directors out on the new Lady Slipper parkrun Picture: Gillian McAinsh Falcon Rock owner Gary Gradwell shows the runners&#8217; foot bridge going up for the new Lady Slipper parkrun Picture: Gillian McAinsh Port Elizabeth park run ambassador Tamarin Ellis tests the new parkrun at Sardinia Bay Picture: Gillian McAinsh The Grass Roof is hosting the new Sardinia Bay parkrun Picture: Gillian McAinsh Mike Charlewood has made his property at Grass Roof available for the new Sardinia Bay parkrun Picture: Gillian McAinsh Runners will pass geese and horses on the Sardinia Bay parkrun Picture: Gillian McAinsh Runners will pass geese and horses on the Sardinia Bay parkrun Picture: Gillian McAinsh The new Sardinia Bay parkrun is on a farm at the Grass Roof Picture: Gillian McAinsh PE Hobie Beach volunteers celebrate milestone runs in the parkrun &nbsp; PARKRUN VENUES IN PORT ELIZABETH The 5km parkrun is an international free timed event every Saturday at 8am and until now Port Elizabeth, with only one event each Saturday, has trailed East London, which has five. Although anyone is welcome to join any of the runs, only those who have registered for a barcode, and scan this at the finish, will receive an official result. PE HOBIE BEACH The course at Hobie Beach starts at the palm tree between the yacht club and Shark Rock Pier and heads south to the beacon at the bottom of Admiralty Way via the Something Good parking lot before moving on to Pollok Beach and then rejoining the footpath to finish at the pier. It is a flat route, mostly on tar pavements with only a short stretch mostly on firm sand. Participants pushing prams are able to return on the tarred path. LADY SLIPPER This is a trail run that starts and ends at Falcon Rock restaurant, 20km west of the city at the foot of Lady Slipper Mountain. Falcon Rock is 4km from the N2 on a short stretch of dirt road, just past Slipperfields. Only suitable for fat-takkie prams. SARDINIA BAY This is also a trail run, and starts and ends at the Grass Roof Farmstall and Restaurant on the corner of Heron Road and the Seaview Road on the outskirts of Port Elizabeth. No prams. Formerly a working farm, the route zigzags up and down several inclines on sandy soil, winding through coastal bush with a fair bit of shade. Pass geese and horses at the start and then keep an eye for bushbuck and impala further down the track. Not suitable for prams. Not in Port Elizabeth? You may like to join the parkrun in Grahamstown or St Francis Bay, or at one in East London, which has active runs at Sunrise, Three Silos, Kidd s Beach and King Williams Town. If a venue and event director is available, a run in Uitenhage is also on the cards for 2017. However, East London s Nahoon run has been cancelled until further notice as the municipality asked for a fee and all parkruns are free. For more information on parkruns in the metro and elsewhere visit the website (where you also can register): www.parkrun.co.za or the Facebook pages of PE Hobie Beach and Lady Slipper parkruns. I m eyeing the parkrun 50 t-shirt Been there, done that, but no T-shirt yet, Gillian McAinsh says of her parkrun experience Whether you are an athletic slug or a track-and-field speedster, you probably actually CAN do the Saturday morning parkruns. I started two years ago, trying to claw back fitness after middle- aged spread and sloth had set in. Well, I may not have shed any kilos but I sure am fitter and have met some super folk along the way. Some days I stroll along the beachfront, pausing to watch the dolphins swim off Pollok and Hobie beaches, other days I try a bit harder, mixing running and with walking. One day I hope to run all 5km. Don t laugh, they may call it a parkrun but most of us do walk! And I ve been as amazed at the flabby folk who bounce merrily past me as I have at the beautiful young things with toned legs and tight buns who, it sometimes turns out, can t run for toffee. It s really not a race and I m glad of that. The parkrun is a very forgiving event and more like a giant family stroll at the beach than a competition. Actually, the organisers stress it is NOT a race as there are no prizes for finishing fast. Although the front-runners zoom in to the finish in under 20 minutes, most of us do double that time. Honestly, nobody except you cares who is first or last and the volunteers will cheer you on even if you take more an hour or more to clock though the finish chute. And that s the beauty of the parkrun: you do it at your own pace and in your own time. My goal is to get that bright orange T-shirt they give everyone who finishes 50 parkruns. So far I ve clocked up 32, mostly at PE s Hobie Beach but also at St Francis Bay and Hermanus and the atmosphere at them all is the same: festive and friendly. I ve also volunteered now and then as the parkrun always needs extra hands to sort the tokens, marshall the runners and take pictures for Facebook page &#8211; and don t we all love seeing our picture up?) For many, the attraction is the chance to do the smaller volunteers run at 6.45am. But if you want to mosey along at 8am and quietly join the main event then, no sweat, welcome to parkrun! Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share