Conor, dealing with his mother&#8217;s illness, finds a most unlikely ally when a monster appears at his bedroom window The monster in A Monster Calls is a metaphor, made of gnarled bark, twisted branches and Liam Neeson s sonorous baritone. This tree-demon charges down from its hill at night to confront a boy called Conor O Malley (Lewis MacDougall), whose already difficult life is about to crack wide open: his mother (Felicity Jones) is gravely ill, and the monster initially seems like a harbinger of disaster. Instead, it might just be a spirit guide, a helping hand through crisis, cooked up by the boy s own feverish imagination. It is, after all, a yew tree, held sacred for its regenerative properties. Fantasies that spring from the creative turmoil of a child are a fertile sub-genre in cinema aspects of this film call to mind Labyrinth, the Laika animation Coraline or even Bernard Rose s undersung 1988 British chiller Paperhouse, which had a similar setting in rural England. Cannily adapted by Patrick Ness from his illustrated book of the same name, this is a more choked-up offering, so overcast with sadness it sometimes seems to be gulping for fresh breaths. Conor s hobby, and a respite from thinking about his mum, or dealing with the bullies at school, is sketching with graphite. He stays up until the witching hour in his bedroom, where this tree-BFG, rumblingly voiced by Neeson, finds him nightly. Instead of threatening to devour him, though, the apparition has stories to tell. Stories? asks Conor, unimpressed. The stories there are three, two of them animated in luscious watercolour illustrate paradoxes which Conor, initially baffled, must grasp in his unstable state of mind. They tell of wronged witches, misdirected vendettas, in a fantasy world of dragons and rumoured poisonings, not unlike Hamlet s play-within-the-play. As Neeson s tree narrates them, the film stands still, but expectantly so, and colours spill across the screen in thrilling splashes. Conor isn t just a bystander here, but an outstandingly detailed main character. Spanish director JA Bayona has drawn powerful performances from children if you think back to his horror debut The Orphanage and discovery of Tom Holland in The Impossible. MacDougall is very special: his face can hide away pockets of pain in one moment and explode with furious resentment the next. There s a Spielbergian showmanship to Bayona s films, wedded to an unabashed emotionalism, and this one reaches for you down in the gut. Working on ever-larger effects budgets next up, the Jurassic World sequel Bayona is like a stage-fond illusionist who loves to flaunt his tricks and devices, opening his films inside out for your inspection. The effects team have certainly gone to town, not only on the molten innards of the monster, but on the recurrent image of a church and graveyard crumbling into an abyss, where Conor fears he will lose his mother forever. Jones, while perfectly sensitive, doesn t have a great deal more to do than pallidly disappear in her role. Sigourney Weaver, unyielding and imperious as Conor s house-proud grandmother, hasn t quite got to grips with her accent, but her best scene the film s best thankfully doesn t need it. It s her mute devastation when finding Conor, in the grips of a particularly wild hallucination, has trashed every inch of her living room. It s a pivotal encounter in a film which keeps devising ever-more-epic collisions between an angry boy and his own sorrow. &#8211; The Telegraph Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share