YOU BEAUTY: Faf du Plessis and fast bowler Kagiso Rabada, of the Proteas, celebrate a wicket with teammates Temba Bavuma and Dean Elgar, left, on Saturday in the third test between South Africa and Sri Lanka at Bidvest Wanderers Picture: GALLO IMAGES SA boost points tally on ICC test table after 3-0 series whitewash of Sri Lanka South Africa will remain third on the International Cricket Council (ICC) test rankings despite the comprehensive 3-0 whitewash of hapless Sri Lanka a side they completely outplayed throughout the series. The Proteas remain behind leaders India and second-placed Australia, but they improved their rating from 102 to 107 as they continue with their daunting mission of recapturing the much sought after test Championship mace. Captain Faf du Plessis s men thumped Sri Lanka by an innings and 118 runs with two days to spare in the third and final test at the Wanderers on Saturday. South Africa started the series with a convincing 206-run win during the Boxing Day test in Port Elizabeth, before wrapping up the series with a 282-run victory in Cape Town to render the Wanderers test a dead-rubber. South Africa and Sri Lanka now shift focus to the three-match T20 series which starts on Friday at Super Sport Park in Centurion. The second match is scheduled for the Wanderers Stadium in Johannesburg two days later, with the last match to be hosted at Newlands Stadium in Cape Town on January 25. Then it is on to the five-match ODI series in Port Elizabeth Durban Wanderers Cape Town and Pretoria between January 28 and February 10 before the Sri Lankans return home. Looking back at the Sri Lankan performances over the three test matches former Sri Lanka all-rounder Russel Arnold said though his countrymen disappointed they will take some positives from the tour. There is no doubt that the performances have been disappointing overall but there are positives to draw from here and there. This is a young team that continues to learn and grow together after losing influential batsman in the last while and we have to be patient with them he said. We must also take into consideration the pitches that we played on at the three venues . . . they were not ideal for them. We saw in Port Elizabeth Cape Town and here [Wanderers] that there was a lot of grass on the wicket, Arnold said. With the limited overs competitions following this test Arnold said he hoped that the Sri Lankans would improve their performances, even though they have not been particularly impressive in T20s and ODIs in recent times. Dean Elgar was South Africa s best batsman of the test series with 308 runs from his five innings. He was followed by JP Duminy with 273 Quinton de Kock with 270 Hashim Amla with 231 and Stephen Cook with 216 in the top five. Kagiso Rabada was the pick of the bowlers with 19 wickets. He was followed by Vernon Philander with 17 Keshav Maharaj with seven Wayne Parnell with six and debutant Duanne Olivier with five. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share