Boko Haram killed at least five soldiers at a military base in northeastern Nigeria at the weekend, while suicide bombers killed three people in the key city of Maiduguri. The attacks will again prompt questions about the extent to which the Islamic State (IS) group affiliate is a spent force, as Nigeria s government has claimed. No group has claimed responsibility yet, but the attacks bore the hallmark of Boko Haram, which has frequently hit checkpoints and security services with suicide bombers. Rebels, whom the military said were ousted from their Sambisa Forest enclave in Borno state last month, first hit an army base in Buni Yadi in neighbouring Yobe state, at dusk on Saturday. Twenty-four hours later, a wave of five suicide bombers targeted civilian vigilantes assisting the military with security in Maiduguri and elsewhere in the remote region. A senior officer, who did not want to be named, said the Buni Yadi assault led to an intense battle. We lost five soldiers in the attack, he said. We are still trying to have a sense of the rebels casualties, as their bodies are scattered in the bush. On Sunday, two women suicide bombers killed two people in the Kaleri neighbourhood of Maiduguri, Borno state police spokesman Victor Isuku said. Civilian vigilante Babakura Kolo and residents said the targets were the homes of militia members helping the military in the area. The first young bomber killed herself and a vigilante s teenage daughter, who answered the door. The second bomber killed the father of the vigilante, who was with his second wife, a resident said. About the same time, three male suicide bombers exploded near a military checkpoint on the city limits, killing one vigilante on patrol, the police said. The Boko Haram gunmen who attacked the military base are believed to be remnants of those flushed out of Sambisa as a result of a sustained military operation that began in April last year. The ousting was described by Abuja as the final stages of the insurgency, which began in 2009 and has left at least 20 000 people dead and more than 2.6 million homeless. President Muhammadu Buhari claimed in December 2015 that the group was technically defeated, but there has been no let-up in attacks, including across the border in Niger, Chad and Cameroon. Attacks on military bases were a regular feature and used by Boko Haram to replenish weaponry. Buni Yadi base spokesman Lieutenant George Okupe confirmed the attack, saying it had been repelled. I cannot confirm any casualties for now, he said. All I can say is that some soldiers are missing. Buni Yadi, about 65km from Yobe state capital Damaturu, fell into the hands of Boko Haram in February 2014 after it attacked a boys boarding school, killing at least 43 pupils. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share