Three armed robberies two of holidaymakers took place in Summerstrand and Humewood, Port Elizabeth, within a 16-hour period. Two men stabbed and robbed a man walking in Driftsands Drive, Humewood, at about 1pm yesterday. A Port Elizabeth student, 22, was walking with his laptop when he was approached by the men, police spokesman Warrant Officer Alwin Labans said. They robbed him and stabbed him in the neck during a scuffle along the road. The robbers then fled into the nearby bushes, he said. The police helicopter was called in to assist and additional manpower deployed to cover and search the area. Within 15 minutes both robbers had been arrested, still in possession of a bloodied knife allegedly used in the attack. The student was conscious and was taken to hospital for treatment. But until he is stable and can submit a statement on what happened, we have limited details, Labans said. The suspects, 25 and 33, are due to appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate s Court on charges of attempted murder and robbery on Monday. In another case, at about 1am yesterday, a 33-year-old woman visiting from Johannesburg was confronted inside a guesthouse in Brighton Drive. A man gained entry to the property and confronted the young woman inside her bedroom, Labans said. She had heard a noise outside but by the time she could react, the man was inside the room with a knife. The woman s cellphone was grabbed and the suspect quickly fled on foot, he said. In the first incident, a hijacking took place at the beacon opposite the busy intersection of Admiralty Way and Marine Drive at about 9.30pm on Wednesday. Labans said a family from the Netherlands went for a walk after parking at the beachfront. They went for a stroll and when they came back to their car, a rental, four men confronted them, he said. One of the men had a gun and held the family up at gunpoint, while demanding their valuables such as jewellery. The men demanded the car keys and sped off in their rented Toyota. Labans said the vehicle had still not been located by late yesterday. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share