The Eastern Cape stands at a crossroads. The first path offers a far brighter future. This route is shaped by the understanding that we can build prosperity by improving the capacity of our schools to educate more Eastern Capers by raising the quality of teaching, leadership and management. The second path offers a future in which our province continues to lose ground in providing our young citizens with the knowledge and skills they need to succeed in the 21st-century workplace. While the general picture looks disappointing a 59.3% matric pass rate compared with last year s 56.8%, a 2.5% improvement the provincial government continues to play its part by creating the right environment for our teachers to flourish, by investing more in education and ensuring that where there are shortcomings, action is taken to deal with them. For our long-term planning, we have identified the following challenges: Unviable schools with few pupils; Incapability of some principals to lead and manage schools as centres of curriculum delivery; Slow or lack of monitoring of performance of schools; Closely managing teacher time on tasks and monitoring of curriculum deliver Subject combinations that are detrimental to the future of pupils; Addressing the plight of the progressed pupils to ensure that they get the opportunity to attain the National Senior Certificate (NSC); Focus on maths and science, given their low pass rates that tend to pull the provincial average down; Teacher development to ensure that they are adequately equipped to deliver the curriculum and are confident with the subject matter; Timeous filling of teacher posts to ensure that there is always a teacher in front of the pupils. So what are we doing to address these challenges? How are we going to motivate and enthuse our young people to remain in learning and give them the opportunities and experiences to ensure they have essential skills for employment and for life? We have initiated a three-year education transformation seven-point plan in basic education outcomes. It covers: An increased number of functional schools; Rationalisation and realignment of unviable schools; Capacitation and functionality of districts and head office; Mobilisation of social partners and the change agenda; Supply of trained teachers; Adherence to national budget allocation norms; and Unqualified audit. So what has the progress against the seven-point plan been since August last year? To increase the number of functional schools, the following has been achieved: Provision of water to schools increased from 23 schools in 2014 to 342 schools to date; The provision of sanitation facilities has moved from 47 schools in 2014 to 287 last year, and we are working hard to reach the target of 400 schools this year; Electricity supply to schools has increased from 25 in 2014 to 127 schools to June last year; and Some 262 special classrooms were built in public schools against a target of 131. In addition, 821 classrooms were built against a target of 763; The government has met the target of transporting more than 65 000 pupils from disadvantaged areas to schools across the province; More than 1 759 301 pupils are benefiting from the school nutrition programme across the province; and To realise the commitment that there shall be no school without a principal of 2 272 posts for principals, deputy principals, heads of department and teachers advertised, 976 have been filled and the process to fill the remaining posts is under way. As part of the province s rationalisation and realignment of schools, including the closure or merger of schools based on a viability study, 560 schools have so far been gazetted and 2 077 schools are being reviewed. The provincial government has endorsed a proposal to reduce significantly the number of education districts in an effort to make for better management and closer supervision of schools and to improve the state of education in the province. The aim is to reduce the 23 education districts in the Eastern Cape to just 12. To improve opportunities for e-learning, 253 schools have been placed on the telematics platform. Thanks to social partners and stakeholders, Wi-Fi-enabled local area networks have been established at more than 273 schools. Eighteen schools with nine classrooms have been turned into smart classrooms and 56 are receiving content digitally. In an attempt to address teacher demand and supply, and address the increased vacancy rates, the following has been achieved: Some 1 665 posts were identified for immediate filling for this school year; and Some 1 653 met the post profile and were filled. Twelve posts could not be filled as they are in specialist areas and candidates declined offers. More attention is being given to improving financial management and accountability for funds allocated for public use. We are working towards positive trends in schools audit outcomes and clean financial management in accordance with the applicable acts. Developing every pupil s full potential means having high expectations for them and constantly working to remove the many barriers to their success. To succeed means that the provincial government, parents, teachers and administrators must constantly summon courage to contribute to the education of the very pupils we so prize and want to see conquer the world. Phumulo Masualle is premier of the Eastern Cape Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share