Barclays Africa subsidiary Absa denies undue benefit from apartheid state help to Bankorp South Africa s anti-graft watchdog has reopened an investigation into whether the Barclays Africa Group benefited from an apartheid-era bailout, the bank said yesterday. A preliminary report by the public protector has found that the apartheid government breached the constitution by supplying Bankorp, which was acquired by Barclays Africa unit Absa in 1992, with a series of bailouts from 1985 to 1995, the Mail &amp; Guardian newspaper reported. Barclays Africa might have to repay R2.25-billion if the finding by public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane is upheld, the paper said. A previous investigation in 2000 by a central bank-appointed panel found that the loans were made to stabilise the banking system and Absa shareholders did not derive any undue benefit, recommending no further action be taken. Former public protector Thuli Madonsela instituted the followup investigation after a 2010 complaint by Paul Hoffman of non-governmental organisation Accountability Now, the Mail &amp; Guardian newspaper said. Barclays Africa said it would continue to cooperate with the public protector, but it believed Mkhwebane s preliminary report had several factual and legal inaccuracies . In its current form it creates the incorrect view that Absa Bank Limited, a subsidiary of the group, received undue benefits by virtue of the South African Reserve Bank [SARB] assistance to Bankorp, Barclays Africa said. Barclays Plc is in the process of trying to reduce its stake in Barclays Africa to 20% from 50.01% as it focuses its business on other markets. A spokesman for Barclays in London declined to comment on whether the case had any implications for the bank s plans to sell its stake in Barclays Africa. Reserve Bank governor Lesetja Kganyago said yesterday the central bank would also cooperate in the public protector s investigation. Mkhwebane, whose office did not immediately respond to requests for comment, has given Absa, the SARB, the Treasury and the Presidency until February 28 to make further submissions before finalising her investigation, the Mail &amp; Guardian said, citing a copy of a preliminary report. In her suggested remedial action, Mkhwebane proposed that President Jacob Zuma should consider a commission of inquiry to see whether other apartheid-era loans should be repaid by other institutions, the paper said. Absa said yesterday it would make further submissions &#8230; to correct several factual and legal inaccuracies that are contained in the provisional report by the public protector. It also said the leak of the report was regrettable and created an incorrect view that Absa Bank Ltd was the beneficiary of undue assistance . We have written to the public protector informing her that we accept her invitation to make further submissions in terms of the Public Protector Act. These submissions will correct several factual and legal inaccuracies in the provisional report Absa spokeswoman Phumza Macanda said yesterday. Reuters and TMG Digital Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share