A Port Elizabeth teenager has been forced to quit school after being bullied File picture: iStock Parents accuse officials of inaction after girl allegedly physically and verbally abused As the second day of school went ahead for many Port Elizabeth pupils yesterday, a teenager whose parents removed her from school due to severe bullying including physical abuse and threatening voice messages is no closer to knowing whether she will be attending school this year. The 15-year-old s parents said they were extremely frustrated by the lack of action on the part of their daughter s former school and the education department. While the provincial Department of Education said the district office had to deal with the issue, the parents aid their pleas for a new school had fallen on deaf ears. Two days after first asking questions on the matter, The Herald has also not received a response from the district office. The former Sanctor High School pupil s parents said the girl had been so badly affected by the verbal and physical abuse that she had started to mutilate herself and eventually attempted suicide. The youngster was initially pulled from school in September last year. She went back to finish the exams and her parents approached the Department of Education in November asking for a place at another school. The girl said her ordeal had begun in 2015 when she started Grade 8 and had continued into Grade 9 last year. She began self mutilating, cutting her arms, in July 2015, something her parents were unaware of until she tried to commit suicide in September last year. She said she did not know how to cope with the situation and cutting herself was a way of expressing her pain, but she had not told her parents until September. She said on one hockey trip in September 2015. she had been hit with a stick by one of her bullies, who later brushed it off as part of the game. Of her suicide attempt, she said: It was a dark time in my life. I did not know what else to do. I could not tell my parents about it at that stage. What would I have said that would make it less painful for them? I was afraid to go to school. It was still difficult for me, as I would still have to see some of [the bullies], the pupil said, crying. When her parents learnt the severity of the situation they took it up with the school. After numerous meetings, including with one of the alleged bullies, attempts to resolve the matter failed. In a meeting with principal Appollis January, the girl s parents informed him about unpleasant voice messages their daughter was receiving. However two days later, January allegedly told them his hands were tied as there was no hard evidence that she had been bullied. The girl s mother said numerous other meetings had taken place between September 9 and November 21 last year, with no satisfactory outcome. The family approached the department for assistance in placing the teenager at another school. They filled in a school transfer form, without any success. They then approached DA MPL Edmund van Vuuren for assistance or feedback. I don t think the school or the department are taking our matter seriously, because we have requested assistance from a number of officials, both district and provincial, as well as politicians, the girl s mother said. I am afraid our daughter will not have a seat at any school in 2017. Van Vuuren confirmed earlier this week that he had been approached by the family for assistance. He said he had informed the family it was a matter between the school principal and the department. All I did was ask the department if they were aware of the case, Van Vuuren said. They told me they were aware of the matter and were in the process of sorting it out, The youngster, who was supposed to start Grade 10 this year, said she felt emotional when she saw her little sister and other children going to school. It s very sad for me watching other children going to school, especially because I am missing valuable learning time. I just want to go back to school, the tearful girl said. Provincial education spokesman Malibongwe Mtima would not be drawn into commenting, saying only: The matter is being handled by the district Department of Education. Numerous attempts to contact January for comment since Monday were unsuccessful. Acting district director George Lukwe initially promised to answer questions, sent to him on Tuesday, by Wednesday evening. By last night, Lukwe had still not responded. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share