Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa Picture: KEVIN SUTHERLAND Mthatha celebration hears tirade against selfishness and corruption The ANC is bedeviled by greedy party leaders fighting over resources and money for themselves, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa said in Mthatha yesterday. Tearing into corrupt and selfish ANC leaders at the party s 105th birthday celebrations, Ramaphosa said such members were hell-bent on dividing the organisation for personal benefit. Unlike the ANC s longest-serving president Oliver Tambo, they had no interest in building and uniting the party. Tambo would have turned 100 in October this year. Many of the divisions are among leaders, not members, Ramaphosa told a packed Walter Sisulu University Stadium. It is us leaders, not the members, who are greedy and divisive and cause factionalism. We are fighting not over politics, but over resources and money for our personal benefit and not for the organisation. It is us leaders who are dividing and killing the ANC. It is leaders who are corrupt. We must move away from these devious practices. He urged ANC leaders and members to emulate Tambo and others. We must be OR Tambo, Nelson Mandela, Govan Mbeki, Walter Sisulu and Chris Hani and many others whose focus was only on uniting the ANC and growing it. Ramaphosa also said the government would set aside almost R15-billion to assist students in tertiary institutions. The government would also continue engaging students and other stakeholders on how they could fund tertiary education better. Earlier, ANC provincial chairman Phumulo Masualle said the Eastern Cape was one of the strongest and most influential provinces in party politics. He said many senior officials and politicians were now frequenting the province. The year 2017 is the year to show them what we are made of, Masualle said. We have seen many of them frequenting the province and I can assure you that 2017 is the year of action and we will show them what we are made of. The Eastern Cape is not a province intlabmo yokufela amahashe [where one can come and do as he or she pleases]. SACP provincial secretary Xolile Nqatha lashed out at state capture. So, comrades, you must not impose your friends on us, irrespective of how powerful they are in business circles. Nqatha said when President Jacob Zuma was elected, the Guptas were not elected, and when they elected Ramaphosa, they were not electing the Ruperts. Ramaphosa will lead a delegation to the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, from tomorrow to Friday. The meeting brings together world leaders in business, politics and civil society to discuss the global economy. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share