If the ANC thinks it will come back into power through a vote of no confidence in Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip, it is living in a fool s paradise. These were the words of UDM president Bantu Holomisa following late night talks with leaders of the DA to resolve the impasse between Trollip and his deputy, Mongameli Bobani. Both Holomisa and DA leader Mmusi Maimane said on Tuesday the meeting in Cape Town was positive, with all in agreement that the coalition was still intact. They discussed the disagreements between Trollip and Bobani over city manager Johann Mettler s appointment and the contract extension for acting corporate services head Vuyo Zitumane. Bobani felt that Mettler s job should be re-advertised in line with Eastern Cape Cooperative Governance MEC Fikile Xasa s advice and he did not want Zitumane s contract to be extended. Holomisa said it was decided last night that the ball was now in Xasa s court to explain exactly what problem he had with the recruitment panel that interviewed candidates for the city manager post. We are waiting for the MEC to explain what he s querying because Bobani was saying that they cannot ignore the MEC s advice. With the Zitumane issue, it was agreed that the post must be filled within six weeks. You can t have a person acting in a position for 18 months; it s against the law. The post has already been advertised. Holomisa said. We agreed that the coalition must continue ahead because these two items which were the bone of contention never threatened service delivery. About the ANC s claims that it would table a motion for a vote of no confidence in Trollip at today s council meeting, Holomisa said: How can they want a vote of no confidence when we re cleaning their mess? Maimane said today s meeting should go ahead as planned and reach a 61-member quorum. The coalition is strong. There is no suggestion or hint that it is under threat. Not from the extensive engagements I ve had with the president of the UDM. We ve agreed on a review of the delegations between the mayor and deputy mayor. Broadly speaking, we shouldn t see any collapse of a council meeting [today]. It all should go ahead, Maimane said. The council meeting is scheduled for 2pm. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share