Police puzzled by motive after man shot dead in front of northern areas house A Port Elizabeth man was shot and killed while standing in front of his house in Deverell Road, Helenvale, at the weekend. Sean Tarentaal, 50, was killed at about 8pm on Saturday. Police remain tightlipped as to why the gang unit has taken over the investigation. Just two hours after Tarentaal was killed, shots were fired at a gang member in Jeffreys Bay. While police claim the two incidents are not linked, both cases have been handed to the Gang Investigation Unit to probe. The weekend s shootings bring the total number of gang-related incidents in and around Nelson Mandela Bay since Wednesday to eight. In total, two people have been killed and seven injured. On Friday, there were two shootings in Port Elizabeth s northern areas. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said yesterday Tarentaal was shot by a gunman walking with two other suspected gangsters. While she confirmed that Tarentaal s death was linked to gangsterism, she said the motive remained unknown. She said Tarentaal had no gang affiliation Asked if Tarentaal was a state witness or complainant in a pending case against gangsters, Naidu said there was no evidence to suggest he was a witness. Three men approached him after walking up to his house by using an alleyway between Fitchardt and Deverell roads. One of the men had a firearm and started to shoot at Tarentaal, she said. People fled but unfortunately Tarentaal sustained a fatal gunshot wound to his chest. Asked why the gang unit took over the case if no witnesses were present and Tarentaal had no gang ties, Naidu said it was procedure. The gang unit has the docket for the preliminary investigation. If no gang involvement is found in terms of the suspects, the case will be handed to the station level detectives for investigation, she said. In Jeffreys Bay, a 30-year-old man linked to a local gang called the Rough Riders was arrested shortly after allegedly trying to kill a 45-year-old man inside his home in Tuna Street, Pellrus. Naidu said preliminary investigations revealed that both incidents were gang-related but not linked. According to police information, at about 10.15pm [on Saturday] a group of men forced their way into the house and a suspect started shooting at the complainant, who escaped unscathed, she said. Shortly after the shooting, the Humansdorp K9 Unit followed up on information on the whereabouts of the suspects. Five men were found at a house in Dolphin Street, which is in also in Pellrus. She said the men were questioned and one person was detained at the Jeffreys Bay police station on a charge of attempted murder and pointing of a firearm. The man who was shot at has not been named for his protection. Naidu said the motive for the shooting was unknown. At this stage detectives are looking at links and busy following up on information, she said. Asked if the Rough Riders gang had a Port Elizabeth link, Naidu said it was subject to investigation. Since last year, police have been monitoring crime displacement where gangs relocated to surrounding towns and areas due to police pressure placed on them in the northern areas. Naidu declined to comment on whether the gangs had expanded their operations to Humansdorp and surrounding towns as part of crime displacement. Detectives are still attempting to establish the motive and reason for the sudden increase in gang shootings. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share