Deon Slamat (2) who died in the fire at their home in Colorado Street Missionvale Picture: Supplied A Port Elizabeth woman is in a critical condition in Dora Nginza Hospital after a fire engulfed her house in Missionvale, killing her two-year-old son. The grandparents of little Deon Slamat cried yesterday as they told how his body was found between a chair and table in the lounge where he is believed to have been hiding from the flames on Saturday. Deon s grandmother, Bernadene Perel, 56, said she had left the house just a few minutes before the tragedy. I had just taken the corner into Peace Street and was chatting to a friend when some kids raced around the corner to tell me what was happening, she said. I cannot say how it came about that the little boy got stuck inside, but she [Deon s mother, Ruth Kiviets] made every attempt to try and get him out, but to no avail. He was the apple of my eye, she said, as tears streamed down her face. Perel said her daughter, who suffered serious burns to her face and back, discharged herself from hospital on Saturday night but was taken back to hospital yesterday morning. Kiviets s neighbour, Vusumzi Koloso, 29, said he had been in his room when his mother ran in and told him that the house next door was on fire. By the time I got outside, it was too late much of the house was already in flames, Koloso said. He said Deon was a happy, playful child, who always had a smile on his face. Deon s 15-year-old brother, Robin Kiviets, broke down in tears as he spoke about his kid brother. He was such a lovely child, my brother. I will miss him terribly, he said. According to family members, Ruth was in the shack adjacent to the main house when the fire started. Her father, Joseph Tesmore, 71, in the main house and was at work when people in the street ran to tell him what had happened. As I approached Colorado Street I kept asking what had happened, but nobody would give me the complete details, he said. It was only as I came closer that I saw the black walls of what was once my home. My heart just sank because everything was destroyed. We have nothing left, all our possessions were gutted by the fire. A fire services official said the cause of the fire was still being investigated. Police spokesman Captain Johan Rheeder said an inquest docket had been opened. The municipality s community fire safety manager, Doem Erasmus, said it was suspected that an electrical fault could have started the blaze. Metro communications director Mzobanzi Jikazana extended the municipality s condolences to the family, saying it would assist them with any relief required. He said police were investigating the incident. Ward 31 councillor Luyolo Nombola said: I have engaged with various municipal departments, including human settlements, social security and social development, on ways in which the family can be assisted. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share