We will end this year pretty much as we started it. Educational outcomes will be a key focus as it has been this past week. The ANC will also be a key focus. How we deal with these two issues will determine whether we continue on the route to the junkyard or we self-correct and head for the stratosphere. Two stories will dominate the end of 2017 in South Africa. One will be about a significant, and often controversial, triumph of our past. The other will be about our choices for the future of our children. On December 3 the country will celebrate the fact that in 1967 the world s first human to human heart transplant was performed at Groote Schuur Hospital in Cape Town. Just two weeks later the ANC will choose a new leader to guide it, and perhaps all of us, into the future. We take heart transplants for granted now. A head transplant is being talked about now, without any irony or sense of awe. In the 1960s heart transplants were hugely revolutionary. That the very first one was done here, on the southern tip of Africa, is an even greater triumph. Can we be a leader in innovation in the arts, medicine, business, technology, finance and other fields while our institutions are burning and will burn for a while to come as the #FeesMustFall movement resuscitates? The state of our universities today, and the way they will be in December 2017, says a lot about our country and its health. South Africa in 1967 was by no means a centre of excellence. It could not be 90% of the population was discriminated against, jailed, robbed of opportunities and oppressed. Thus the Groote Schuur transplant remains controversial and complicated today exactly because it was a great achievement in a country where many hospitals barred blacks from study, service and care. The heart of South Africa was inhumane even as it achieved great medical and scientific honours. That is why our current South Africa is so complicated. The year will end with Jacob Zuma vacating the ANC presidency he has controversially straddled for nine years now. It will bring to an end at least one period of infamy and shame for the party and for the country. Will the Zuma exit mean a new beginning for the party and the country? Will the ANC strain to such an extent that it will splinter or even split again as happened with the EFF and COPE phenomena? We don t know. Our domestic politics are dominated by a Zuma who is frustrated, failing and forlorn. His actions are irrational. He is like a cornered rat as his scandals and his crimes slowly catch up with him. What will he do next? Last month he asked an audience in his beloved KwaZulu-Natal whether we were ready for another cabinet reshuffle. He has clearly learnt nothing since the disastrous reshuffle of December 9 2015. Globally, leaders similar to Zuma are on the rise. US president-elect Donald Trump seems to be intent on upending global international relations and provoking a confrontation with China. Trump s diplomacy by Twitter is causing ructions. What will his presidency be like? He is proving so unpredictable that we just do not know, although some of his policy proposals are pretty scary, if not downright crazy. Russia s Vladimir Putin is similarly on some kind of global domination quest and seems to be hell-bent on rewriting the humiliation of Russia after the fall of communism in 1989. We are ruled by frustrated men who are increasingly divorced from reality. But there are pockets of optimism in some parts of the world. The African continent still has the ability to be a beacon of hope and prosperity for our people. Some political leaders have been outstanding. Think of Ghana s recent democratic transition and smile. Yet there are the Yahyah Jammehs of this world, men refusing to step down and pass the baton to others. In general, though, the global and domestic environment looks pretty bleak. One would have hoped for better leadership to deal with an increasingly complex and dangerous world. At these times we realise what we have lost in failing to grow new leaders who could walk in the footsteps of Nelson Mandela, Olusegun Obasanjo, Thabo Mbeki and others. Sadly, we have the leaders that we have chosen. They do not inspire much confidence. The best we can hope for is that in these strained times a new, people-centred leadership will emerge to help us deal with the problems the world and South Africa face. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share