SMASHING IT: Warriors captain Jon-Jon Smuts during their match against the Knights last night Picture: BRIAN WITBOOI Smuts rewarded for top-rate form as Proteas T20 squad to face Sri Lankans named Warriors captain Jon-Jon Smuts spoke yesterday of how shocked he was to have received that call to let him know he had been selected to represent the Proteas. Smuts has been rewarded for his fine form in white-ball cricket in recent years by being named in the T20 squad to face the Sri Lankans later this month. Allrounder Smuts was included in a 13-man lineup to face the tourists in three T20s, starting on January 20. The team will be led by Farhaan Behardien, who has been appointed as stand-in captain the for the first two matches. Smuts said he had been contacted by selection convener Linda Zondi on Thursday evening last week soon after all the Kolpak drama had unfolded. He let me know that I was selected to the T20 squad for the first two games. I had no idea who was calling and I was quite shocked. I was not expecting it, especially considering it is still quite some time before the first game. And also, I suppose, with all the goings-on at CSA with the Kolpak news just breaking out, I was quite shocked to hear from him, the former Graeme College schoolboy star said. Smuts told The Herald in September last year that he felt he was just a few good performances away from selection to the Proteas side. That feels like just the other day. I had no idea then. When you look at the Proteas squad, you have a few players who were playing a lot of cricket and may be getting rested and stuff like that. So I had hoped then that there could be a chance that they could blood a few players, he said. That dream came true yesterday, but it was also a fine CSA T20 Challenge campaign which probably tilted the scale in his favour. It was his role as a top-order batsman and left-arm spinner which was instrumental, along with some other team performances, in helping the Warriors to the final of that tournament. One of the few things I have noticed from the Warriors over the last few years is we have always had players, including myself, who have been in the top run- scoring charts and top wicket-taking charts. Andrew Birch hasn t come out of nowhere this season to do well. He has always been up there. Sisanda Magala, Basheer Walters we ve always had guys in the shorter formats doing well. Colin Ingram has been another player who has done it for a number of seasons, and Christiaan Jonker. For me, it s been about winning games for the Warriors. If the team is doing well, we will get players into the national setup. Obviously, I m hoping to contribute with both bat and ball. That would be great, Smuts said. The squad includes six new caps in this format in Smuts, Theunis de Bruyn, Mangaliso Mosehle, Andile Phehlukwayo, Dane Paterson and Lungi Ngidi. We have decided to rest some of our key senior players for this series, Zondi said. This is the last chance we have to do so, as the Momentum ODI series that follows is an important part of our build-up to the ICC Champions Trophy Tournament in England in the middle of the year. Both AB de Villiers and Morne Morkel are due to resume playing at domestic level this month and could come into contention for the third T20, Zondi said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share