Theo Castelein with the main course at Divinos in Raleigh Street. Picture: Ivor Markman He is a familiar face in the Port Elizabeth hospitality industry, having operated the restaurant at Old Grey for a good number of years. Theo Castelein started a somewhat more sophisticated new venture in Richmond Hill in the second half of last year and it has been a treat to see him come into his own there. It s called Divino and, yes, the food is rather divine! Theo, who has been in the hospitality industry for 20 years, opened the restaurant for the owner, Nomawethu Sifumba, an associate at BLC Attorneys. My husband, Salvelio, and I have eaten at Divino twice and on both occasions we had a very satisfying meal. The best part was that it did not break the bank, which is a bonus these days when everything seems to be getting more and more expensive. The restaurant, in an old house in Raleigh Street, is at the same premises previously occupied by the late George Ioannides s Greek Taverna (next door to Fernando s), though it now looks very different. The spot is slightly removed from the main Stanley Street restaurant precinct and so is not always terrifically full, which can be a definite perk when you didn t think to book and are not in any kind of mood to fight someone for a table. Finding parking is also not nearly as much of an irritation. The restaurant has a laid-back and comfortable interior and there s even a bit of a nod to the Port Elizabeth of old, with historic pictures of the city adorning the walls alongside pleasing artwork. You can either sit inside or dine al fresco on the verandah or in the comfy and discreet courtyard at the back. I m one of those silly people who becomes grumpy when I get cold and, since we were there on two nights when the wind was a little nippy, we chose to sit inside. I don t doubt however that the courtyard and front section would be a delicious option at the height of summer preferably with a cocktail in the hand! Though the European-themed menu is not massive I spotted plenty of appealing dishes on it the result no doubt of Theo having secured a Serbian chef (Darko, ex the original Cafe Brazilia) for his kitchen. The couple at the next table ordered the Fillet Avocado, which looked mouthwatering, but since we weren t particularly meat-hungry we decided on seafood and chicken instead. Our main courses were preceded by mussels in marinara sauce (R60) and chicken livers with bacon (R55), and both dishes were worthy of a repeat order. The secret with chicken livers is never to overcook them and these were deliciously soft, with just enough bite from the peri-peri. The mussels too were good a generous portion and with bits of spicy chorizo in the sauce. This is an unusual combination I wouldn t have thought to try but in the end it was a winning one. Both our visits were at night but we were told there is a separate, even more reasonably priced lunchtime menu from which dishes like lamb schwarma are proving popular. I am tempted to try this in future as several of our friends have been raving about the schwarmas. While awaiting our mains courses we were treated to a complimentary flatbread which did its job in opening up our appetites. As far as mains go the pastas are hand-made from scratch on the premises, which is always a hit with me, especially when said pasta is perfectly al dente and the sauce lip-smackingly good, as was the case with the seafood pasta (R89) which was not schnoep on fish either. Another unbeatable choice is the Adriatic chicken (R69) with creamy white wine and mustard sauce, which Theo told us is a Serbian recipe straight from his foreign chef s arsenal. There s not much on offer by way of dessert except for the pan-fried carrot cake with coconut gelato (R45). We had this the first time we visited and were happy to order it again the second time around that s how delicious this deconstructed carrot cake was. The pan-frying adds an interesting dimension as some of the cake becomes crispy, almost caramelised. What s not to love, right? Divino is not licensed and patrons are encouraged to bring their own alcoholic drinks at no charge. Nowadays we are especially careful about drinking and driving anyway. Follow your meal with a coffee and you can t go wrong. Our meals averaged at R315 for two people including a shared starter, two main courses and a shared dessert, plus sparkling water for each. This excludes a tip. Service was attentive but not to a tiresome degree. Our food was served speedily too and it was encouraging to see Theo always on hand. Divino is at 26a Raleigh Street, Richmond Hill. Bookings are on (041) 582-2168 and hours are Tuesday to Saturday, noon to 10pm. The two restaurant visits on which this review was based were anonymous, unannounced and the meals paid for in full. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share