Lisakhanya Maphiri stares at the destruction in disbelief A teenager has started the school year without a uniform or school books after a fire ravaged his Kwazakhele home. The home, in Salmantu, was virtually destroyed on Thursday morning. Sibusiso Dume, 25, says he was woken up by smoke and in what seemed like only minutes the contents of the house were burnt to ashes as they watched. The home accommodated his family and tenants who lived in rooms connected to the house. With the start of the new school year on hand, Dume s 14-year-old nephew, who also lived in the house, was hard hit by the fire. Lisakhanya Maphiri, a Grade 9 pupil at Masibambane Secondary School, saw his precious school uniform and books go up in flames. We were celebrating my birthday the night before, and I didn t expect that this would happen. I didn t think I would receive this kind of present. My heart is sore and I feel left behind because my classmates have everything they need to start the academic year, Maphiri said. Ward 22 councillor Nqabakazi Zuma said when they arrived at the house everything had been destroyed except for an outside room. Zuma said the house had been burnt to the bare walls, with only charred bricks remaining. The electricity box had been destroyed and plugs had melted. She said she would assist with the cleaning up of the house after police had investigated the case. We are in talks with NGOs around Kwazakhele to assist the family with clothes and a bed. We have also contacted disaster management to come and help in any way possible, Zuma said. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said no inquiry had been opened, but the family said they would be presenting the police with an affidavit regarding the incident. Dume said the house was their only source of income as he was unemployed. Our parents and elders passed away, and leasing the other rooms to tenants was the only way we received income. I was the sole contributor and the money assisted in helping my nephew with school needs, he said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share