SEVERE WOUNDS: With a badly injured face, Shane Witbooi, 12, is comforted by his grandmother Picture: EUGENE COETZEE Police identify three suspects after boy injured by cigarette blast In a suspected horrifying prank, a young Port Elizabeth schoolboy was severely injured when a firecracker exploded in his face after it is believed to have been offered to him by three young men as a cigarette . And three brothers from Summerstrand the sons of a police colonel who are all in their 20s have now been linked to an investigation of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm which could be changed to attempted murder. Due to the explosion from the firecracker, 12-year-old Shane Witbooi, a Grade 6 pupil at Rufane Donkin Primary School in Gelvandale, is in hospital with burns and other injuries to his face. His eyes are swollen shut and he has difficulty speaking or communicating. The suspected prank took place in the early hours of Sunday when Humewood and Summerstrand residents reported hearing loud bangs and explosions. Provincial Hospital staff said while Shane was no longer in a critical condition, he was in severe pain and the extent of any permanent damage still had to be determined. Shane s eyes are swollen shut, his lips split and his face and arms burnt. The damage to his eyes or ears will only be known when further tests are done. Due to the severity of Shane s injuries, detectives are looking into altering the charge to attempted murder. During an interview at his bedside yesterday afternoon, Shane could only slur: Pray for me, pray for me. </p> Shocked nurses said that Shane had been in pain and had been crying for his grandparents yesterday morning. Devastated and angry grandparents James, 61, and Beatrice Witbooi, 62 who mostly look after Shane said they were glad he was alive after he went missing on Saturday afternoon. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the incident happened at about 2am on Sunday when three males approached two people in the parking lot across from McDonald s fast-food restaurant in Beach Road. According to police information, a cigarette was offered to the two and the younger person, a 12-year-old child, accepted it. The cigarette was allegedly lit by one of the three men and seconds later it blew up in the face of the child, Naidu said. The three men then sped off in a bakkie. Naidu, who confirmed that three suspects linked to the crime were the children of a police colonel based at Gelvandale, said police were alerted and the registration number of the vehicle was traced to a house in Summerstrand. According to police who were at the scene, an attempt to evade arrest was made when the three allegedly took the personalised registration plates off the bakkie which they used as a getaway vehicle in an attempt to avoid detection. Shane, who was initially taken to the intensive care unit, was later transferred to the paediatric ward at Provincial. Visibly distraught gran Beatrice said Shane and a group of friends had gone to the beachfront in Summerstrand on Saturday. They went to the beach and all his friends came back except him. We panicked when he didn t come back and called his mother who also lives nearby. On Sunday, she went looking for him and couldn t find him, Beatrice said. We were looking everywhere and were very worried. Beatrice said details of what happened remained unknown as Shane was unable to talk. We don t know if he was lost. He also can t talk and we are struggling to find out exactly what happened. She asked: Who does this to a child? James said detectives had arrived at their house in Helenvale yesterday afternoon. They were asking about Shane and we wanted to know what happened. The detective brought us to the hospital and there he was, lying in the bed with a bandage on his head and his eyes swollen shut. A shaken James said while he and his wife were very angry, they were also glad Shane had been found. We were very worried and looked everywhere for him. We have at least found him now and are happy that he is alive. The incident comes after residents in the Summerstrand and Humewood area reported gunshots, which were later found to be firecrackers being set off randomly. One resident told police he thought an ATM at one of the shopping centres had been blown open due to the loudness of the firecrackers. Police were still analysing CCTV footage yesterday to determine if the suspects were linked to the crackers being set off. Humewood police station commander Brigadier Ronald Koll said due to the seriousness of Shane s injuries, he was planning to change the case to attempted murder. This is a very serious incident and has likely changed this youngster s life forever. Several warnings were issued over the festive season regarding fireworks and now a young child has been critically injured during an intentional prank, Koll said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share