The open veld between Dolfyn and Jasmyn flats in Algoa Park where litter of all sorts is piling up Picture: Devon Koen Families in Algoa Park complain over growing piles of rubbish Broken furniture, swathes of ripped plastic bags and even animal carcasses are creating a stink in Algoa Park, with residents blaming the heaps of trash on the closure of a nearby dumpsite. The Ditchling Street refuse drop-off site, between Algoa Park and Young Park, was permanently closed by the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality on December 15, with the public directed to dumpsites in Stanford Road or Ralo Street in KwaMagxaki, both some distance away. Bianca Minnie, 31, who has lived in Algoa Park her entire life, said she had noticed an increase in the amount of dumped litter and other waste since late last year. Two weeks ago, she was walking in the veld behind her Dennehout Street home when she noticed the carcasses of five dogs tossed on the ground. I am disgusted by how our area looks, the mother of two said. Minnie said that after the dumpsite s closure, an increase in garbage had been noted, specifically between the Dolfyn and Jasmyn blocks of flats. A visit to the area showed the veld covered in rubbish. Margaret Stopforth, who declined to give her age, said she had been living in the Keurboom apartment block, a stone s throw from Jasmyn, for 26 years and was saddened by the state of the area. In the beginning it was nice, but now it has become dirty and ugly, she said. At the former drop-off site, large signboards inform the public where to take their rubbish to. Ruan Meintjies, 26, who has lived near the former dumpsite for years, said he was not surprised by the closure of the site because there had been an increase in vagrants and the area had become unsafe. They [vagrants] would burn all sorts of things and the smell was terrible, he said. Municipal spokesman Mthubanzi Mniki said an action plan had been implemented during the closure of the site. It included; The removal of squatters; Setting up physical barriers to prevent entry to the site; Handing out notices to users of the site prior to closure; Stationing security officers and town rangers at the site to inform and enforce the closure; and Asking police and municipal security officers to assist after hours in ensuring that dumping did not take place and vagrants did not return to the area. Mniki said the site had been closed as there was the threat that an informal settlement would spring up next to it. He said palisade fencing had already been damaged and vagrants were encouraging businesses to drop off their waste at the site. Mniki said the site had become unsafe for residents and the burning of copper and other elements had caused pollution and was a health hazard. He said illegal dumping had always been a problem in specific areas and the municipality had tried to block access to such sites on numerous occasions. Plans are in place to improve the enforcement by, among others, getting more town rangers, he said. As for the excessive amount of waste material strewn across open areas, Mniki said there was a programme in place to collect the litter in the affected areas. Litter pickers are focusing on areas like the Uitenhage and Addo roads for now. However, they will also be covering other affected areas, he said. Fines would be imposed on illegal dumpers. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share