Hooters waitress Jade Hammond barman Matthew Smith with the sign put up in the women s bathroom Picture: Eugene Coetzee An angel shot with lime may sound like a fancy drink, but the latest addition to the Hooters menu comes with a side-serving of help for women in need. Instead of the fake phone call from your bestie, the new get-out-of-a-hellish-date card is the angel shot . The trend, which is said to have originated in the UK, has now reached South Africa s shores and helps you get out of getting tender with your date or a seriously sticky situation. Hooters in Port Elizabeth implemented the emergency shot plan after the South African leg of the restaurant chain was tagged in a picture of a poster detailing what it entails. We got the image and discussed it in our WhatsApp group and PE actioned it immediately, Hooters South Africa marketing manager Roger Mason said. The shooter advertised on a poster in the women s bathroom at the risqu Walmer eatery has caused quite a stir on social media. The poster reads: Is your [blind] date not who they said they were on their [online] profile? Do you feel unsafe, or even just a bit weird? We re here to get help. Just go to the bar and order an angel shot. The angel shot comes in three different ways. Neat means the bartender must escort you to your vehicle. With ice , your bartender will arrange a lift home for you, and with lime , your bartender will call the police. While most Port Elizabeth residents commenting online welcomed the sign, commending Hooters for doing its part in making women feel safe, some questioned how effective the angel shot would be now that it had been published for all to see. Hooters Port Elizabeth general manager Donovan Noyle said even though it had already received so much traction online, the initiative still stood although subject to the names of the rescue shots being changed. The staff know they must take this seriously someone, somewhere may need help, that s what this initiative is all about, he said. Sonke Gender Justice policy development and advocacy coordinator Marike Keller said she personally thought the initiative would largely be ineffective. I think the option of an angel shot at a bar or restaurant can create an initial sense of safety for women [but] our goal should be to live in a world free from violence and the fear thereof, so that initiatives such as the angel shot are no longer necessary, she said. Lindsay Ziehl, of the Yokhuselo Haven for abused women, said it was a great idea. Keeping women safe, I like it. Well done Hooters, Ziehl said. Cam van Aken thought it was a fabulous idea that a bar had taken the initiative to protect its customers. Some people, however, questioned why anyone would go to Hooters famous for its chicken wings, but more so for its sexy waitresses on a first date. Wynand Classsen commented on the HeraldLIVE Facebook page: Good idea, but if a man wants to take a lady on a first date to Hooters then that is the first sign of what class he has. Denver Wright jokingly pleaded for a sign to be put up in the men s bathroom as well. There are a few crazy Grot otters [scary women] out there, he said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share