In wake of other shocks, Titans and Proteas cricketer signs Kolpak deal Proteas limited overs all-rounder David Wiese has become the third cricketer in less than a week to forego any further of playing for South chance Africa. Wiese has joined Kyle Abbott and Rilee Rossouw and signed a Kolpak contract that effectively ends his national team career. Titans player Wiese, 31, played six ODIs and 20 T20s for South Africa between 2013 and 2016. He was part of Russell Domingo s squad during the last T20 World Cup in India where he played three matches last year. Throughout his professional years Wiese who has career-best figures of 5/23 in T20s has built up a reputation as a finisher of matches because of his explosive batting in the middle order. There is a possibility that Wiese was going to be included in the Proteas squad for the three T20 matches against Sri Lanka in Pretoria Johannesburg and Cape Town later this month. Wiese would also have been included in the Proteas squad for the once-off match against New Zealand at Eden Park in Auckland next month. Titans chief executive Jacques Faul confirmed that Wiese had signed a contract with Sussex and wished him well, also thanking him for his contributions to the franchise. To be honest he conducted himself well in the whole process and he was open to us because at the age of 31 time is no longer on his side Faul said. He came to us and played his cards on the table and we supported and respected his decision because he gave it a lot of thought. Recently Wiese helped the Titans to defend their T20 Challenge title and he has played in the Indian Premier League (IPL) for the Royal Challengers Bangalore in the CPL for the Guyana Amazon Warriors and Barbados Tridents. Over the past 12 months Cricket South Africa (CSA) has seen an increasing number of players such as Abbott Rossouw Simon Harmer Hardus Viljoen Stiaan van Zyl Rory Kleinveldt Colin Ingram and Richard Levi signing Kolpak deals with English counties. In 27-year-old Harmer s case, Domingo said he had held discussions with the Warriors Sunfoil Series captain before his announcement came. Domingo said there was also a positive side to Kolpak deals. Harmer spoke to me. I have a lot of respect for him he sat down with me, Domingo said. And it was probably in his best interests. Simon is still a young off-spinner and we ve got a few spinning options around at the moment. It s a great opportunity . . . go and learn your trade in England and come back when you re 29 or 30. Simon Harmer could be better. CSA chief executive Haroon said: We invest huge sums of money in every individual, and if you take Rilee [Rossouw] by way of an example, I don t know how many months we have been treating his injuries and investing in him. Sadly, there is no return for us in the years to come. Instead of crying over spilt milk, we will invest in young South Africans who avail themselves to play for the Proteas. Haroon said places for Kolpak players in South African domestic cricket could be limited. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share