The brazen theft of safety deposit boxes at a second Johannesburg branch of First National Bank has heightened questions about the bank s security measures and left more people devastated by the loss of their valuables. Thieves reportedly penetrated a vault at FNB Parktown on New Year s Eve and took R1.7-million in cash and valuables from about 30 safety deposit boxes. This follows the heist pulled off at FNB in Randburg on December 18 when thieves made off with 360 safety deposit boxes after tying up the lone security guard on duty and then using a jackhammer to gain access. Two days later, police found 252 of the boxes dumped in a field. They had been forced open and emptied of jewellery Krugerrands and other valuables with only documents left behind. FNB s safety deposit contract states that the bank will not be legally responsible under any circumstances for any loss or damage that may occur to the contents and urges customers to insure the contents but victims of the first heist are contemplating legal action alleging that the bank was negligent in not securing the facility appropriately. They were paying monthly fees of a few hundred rands to secure their valuables. FNB Points of Presence chief executive Lee-Anne van Zyl confirmed that the debit orders of affected clients had been cancelled. Asked what the bank was doing to return the passports title deeds and other important documents recovered to their owners as soon as possible Van Zyl said the documents were still in the possession of police. FNB will be guided by the investigation process regarding the way forward she said. Another thing about which several victims have expressed anger is a letter they received from the manager of the FNB Randburg branch stating our recent telephone call to you . . . confirming that a burglary occurred . . . That is because bank staff did not call them to inform them of the burglary. I heard about it on the radio and called the Randburg branch for more information James Miles said. Nicole on the victims Whatsapp group said: We read about [the heist] phoned and then went in. [The manager] gave us a letter confirming their call to us. I have written to them disputing this. It is called disinformation in the corporate world. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share