Additional security measures have paid off for many Port Elizabeth schools set to open on Monday, with only two cases of vandalism reported over the December holidays. Bay schools have, in the past, suffered major blows during the holidays at the hands of vandals and have been forced to pay thousands of rands for repairs. While some school principals were still worried about what awaited teachers when they open on Monday, many have expressed relief at starting the new school year with no disruptions. Education Department spokesman Mali Mtima could not say how much vandalism in Eastern Cape had cost the department in 2015-16. Northern Areas Education Forum secretary Richard Draai said there had been a significant decline in vandalism at schools in his area. Draai is also chairman of the Bethvale Primary School governing body and said the school had last been hit by vandals in August, with some classroom doors damaged. It is heartbreaking when teachers open schools [after the holidays] to find papers on the floor and damage. It is endless what [vandals] do to schools. The worst of it is that we do not have money to repair the damages, he said. The forum represents 56 schools. It had not been informed of any incidents of vandalism, he said, and attributed the decline to new fencing provided by the department. Draai said: Usually we would have to delay teaching by a day or a week depending on when the police arrived. To be able to start the year on such a positive note is very good for schools. Hillside High School principal Nythil Paulsen said even though the school had reported a tuckshop break-in, it was set to start teaching on schedule. The school was hit by vandals in November, leaving classrooms where brand new stationery was stored, and corridors, completely soaked in water as pipes and toilet basins were stolen. The cost of repairing the damage came to R50 000. We were forced to [hire] both night and day security guards with money we do not have. We are happy that we will start teaching on time, Paulsen said. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge confirmed a significant decline in school vandalism cases reported. I am aware of only one case of vandalism, at Mncedo High School in Motherwell NU10. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share