A pair of alleged muggers linked to an attack on schoolboys near Settlers Park were handed over to the police after having been apprehended by community rangers inside the park. The suspects, a young woman and a man, were nabbed in the bush by Baakens Valley Community Partnership (BVCP) rangers on Thursday morning after a roller-coaster chain of events, starting with an attack on three schoolboys. The BVCP suspects the couple could also have been involved in an incident in November when schoolchildren were attacked in the park. Yesterday, BVCP manager Morgan Griffiths said a photograph of the alleged muggers was posted on the rangers Facebook page and generated thousands of likes and shares. He said visitors to the post included victims from two separate previous muggings allegedly involving the same couple. Led by the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality s environmental services division, the BVCP includes the Wildlife and Environment Society (Wessa) and the Baakens Valley Preservation Trust. Griffiths, who is also environmental governance manager at Wessa, said the three Walmer Township schoolboys had been staying with a friend in Central overnight and were about to cross into the valley on their way to school when the attack occurred. They were near St George s Hospital when it happened. It s not clear what the muggers took but they ran off down Park Drive and then How Avenue into Settlers Park. Rangers spotted the couple coming into the park. The rangers followed them and found them in the bush and handed them over to the police. We were very happy with the result, Griffiths said In its Facebook posting, the BVCP urged anyone with knowledge of the alleged muggers to contact the Humewood police station at (041) 504-5000. Griffiths said in an incident on November 4 three schoolchildren were mugged in the park for their cellphones and money by two young men and a young woman and that the two incidents could be linked. Police spokesman Captain Johan Rheeder yesterday could not confirm what police station the alleged muggers had been taken to, or what they were charged with. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share