When I became a member of the ANC 20 months ago, it was as if I had joined Isis. How can you do that? they asked. It s a democracy we live in and that allows us choice. When my grandchildren challenged me and said: Gogo? What are you going to do to protect democracy, so that one day when we need to vote freely and fairly, democracy will still be there in full working condition? , there was only one choice: I had to become involved in active politics again. As we all know, parliament is no longer the arena of debate and sensible compromise. So I have to be at the headquarters of the ANC. Yes, Luthuli House is the only real power station that the ANC has built in the last 22 years. I remember sitting outside that building in my car in a turmoil of indecision. How can I choose that party after those years of struggle against it? Ja-nee, boer maak n plan. So I got out of the car, kissed it goodbye and walked into the foyer of this monument of nouveau-noir aspirations. Joining the ANC was a life-changing experience. I walked in there with all the familiar prejudices that so many of us share. That everyone in the ANC is corrupt, that everyone is a crook, creaming off the top of the barrel, hitching up the questionable families prowling the perimeters of power. During my experiences in Luthuli House I have met so many comrades who are not corrupt, who are working hard to keep this democracy more or less on track. As a member of the ANC I may not speak on behalf of the party. I may not insinuate or fabricate, I may not announce or even celebrate. So I write here purely in a personal capacity. I have always been famous as the best cook in the old National Party. And so I now use my cooking art to reconcile a politburo. My kitchen is my national key point. Sometimes we speak in whispers because there are rumours that people could be listening in. Some comrades make loud small talk about where they had dinner and what s happening on their favourite TV soapie, while writing the truth down on a pad. We then for safety have to eat that page with our melktert. Which means that not everyone is following the leader. Does history repeat itself and turn tragedy into farce? The horrors of apartheid are hiding in the mists of fading memories. Those terrible things we did to each other in the name of politics are the tragedies of our past, but today there are those familiar farces of confusion, arrogance, carelessness and lost opportunities. That s not a tragedy; that s just bad government. The National Party was also in constant war with itself. Exactly what is happening now outside my Luthuli House kitchen. But in the old days no one knew because we controlled everything. Today everyone has a camera at their fingertips, so no one can hide anything negative from the positive. So it s not impossible to fall in love with South Africa again. Politics is here today and gone tonight. Keep your eye on the muddy ball of policies, but focus on what matters. Your family, your life, your loves. We must keep this land strong and confident. If the people lead, the government must follow! Evita Bezuidenhout is the creation of satirist Pieter-Dirk Uys Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share