That Kagiso Rabada needs a rest has been a hot topic in South African cricket discourse for weeks. At Newlands yesterday, Rabada himself delivered the definitive comment on the issue by completing his second 10-wicket haul in his 13th test. Rabada took 6/55 in Sri Lanka s second innings for a match analysis of 10/92 the best figures by a South African in the 24 tests they have played against the Lankans. That earned South Africa victory by 282 runs with more than five sessions of the second test to spare. It also meant the home side have won the series ahead of the third test at the Wanderers next Thursday. Sri Lanka who were set 507 to win resumed on 130/4 and lost six wickets for 94 runs in 12 overs. Rabada took four of them first striking in the sixth over of the day when Dinesh Chandimal s flick off his pads flew to Stephen Cook at square leg. In his next over Rabada had Upul Tharanga caught behind off the bottom edge with his first delivery and Angelo Mathews also snaffled by Quinton de Kock with the sixth ball. Four overs later Suranga Lakmal gloved a Rabada bouncer to De Kock. Rabada was indeed rested after bowling seven overs in which he took 4/33. Keshav Maharaj hammered another nail into the visitors coffin when he had Lahiru Kumara smartly stumped by De Kock with a wide delivery. Vernon Philander ended the match 15 minutes before the scheduled lunch interval when he bowled Nuwan Pradeep to complete the Lankans dismissal for 224. Philander took 3/48. Meanwhile, 4 hours later, Kyle Abbott appeared in test whites for a last hurrah. The squad support staff and all spilled onto the outfield and made their way to the middle to sing the team song. Abbott was the only one still in his playing kit test cap and all save for a pair of slops where his bowling boots used to be. The huddle formed and the warbling went up into a cloudy sky. Then Abbott accepted the hugs and handshakes of people who until Monday did not know he had signed a four-year Kolpak contract with Hampshire five months ago. Almost two hours beforehand, Abbott had sat behind a thicket of microphones to explain why he had done such a thing and come within a single halting heaving breath of melting into tears. It was one of the hardest decisions I ve had to make through my years of playing cricket, but it s the right decision for me Abbott said. I have had a great run with Cricket SA. I have no regrets at all. I have been involved in some unbelievable games and series and I am grateful for that. I feel it is a time in my life to make a career decision. I am going to be 30 this year and I feel this is the right path for me. It was all very different from what Abbott had said at another media conference at St George s Park as recently as Friday: The team s in a great space and so am I. It s exciting to see what s going to come. So might South Africans who accepted those words as the heartfelt truth be justified in feeling betrayed by Abbott? Absolutely not he said. If I wasn t committed I would have done this a long time ago. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share