WRITE STUFF: Advocate Barry Pienaar with his book, Freddie Boy The Untold Story There is no client as scary as an innocent man, criminal defence attorney J Michael Haller said in Los Angeles in 1962. Nearly 44 years later, an advocate in Port Elizabeth learnt the harsh reality of this statement, writes Kathryn Kimberley Barry Pienaar SC has put pen to paper to document one of the most talked about and arguably most controversial criminal trials in South Africa to date. In Freddie Boy The Untold Story, Pienaar explains exactly what it was like to defend a man he believed from the outset was innocent a notion most people still disagree with. Pienaar was part of the team that represented Stellenbosch actuary Fred van der Vyver, who, before he even walked into the Cape Town High Court to stand trial in February 2007, had already been labelled a murderer. Had South Africa relied on a jury system, Van der Vyver would likely have been convicted. Instead, Pienaar and fellow Port Elizabeth advocates Dup de Bruyn SC and Terry Price SC achieved the near impossible Van der Vyver s acquittal for the murder of his girlfriend, Inge Lotz. Pienaar is soft-spoken and humble, but when he talks he demands respect. One colleague said of Pienaar: When he talks, you can t quite help but give him your undivided attention. He is smart that way. Outside the courtroom he is no different. Across from his large wooden desk in his office at the Advocates Chambers in Bird Street, Pienaar says he is proud of the book he put out. In chapter one he asks readers for a small indulgence; to imagine Van der Vyver is indeed innocent. Freddie Boy, launched last month, is about lawyering and Van der Vyver s criminal and civil trials which lasted up to 10 years. I decided to write the book when we were still busy with the trial, but actually only got around to it when I spent some time in the Drakensberg last year, Pienaar said. He said writing the book was enjoyable, but with it being non-fiction it was tough at times. One must obviously be careful to be sensitive. I spoke to Fred before I published and he was fine with it. Pienaar said he had the greatest respect for the Van der Vyver and Lotz families, who he found throughout the trial and despite their grieving somehow managed to treat each other with respect. Pienaar boldly admits that through years of criminal work he only truly believed that two of his clients were innocent. Van der Vyver was one of them. With years of experience you come to know when a person is lying. I learnt a lot about Fred and he remained solid throughout. People often ask how we can defend the guilty. Through the book I wanted to explain the life of an advocate. Pienaar grew up in Cradock. His father was a doctor. I did not want to be a doctor so law was the next option. He received his LLB in 1980 and started his career as a prosecutor in the PE Magistrate s Court in 1981. In 1982, he climbed the ladder to become a state advocate in the Grahamstown High Court before going into private practice. He completed his pupilage in 1984. In the 80s, Pienaar defended hundreds of political activists. But it was after defending an activist who had necklaced an informer that he decided to turn his focus to civil law, a decision he does not regret today. Taking on Van der Vyver s case some years later, Pienaar found himself putting his criminal hat back on albeit briefly. The legal team, together with a group of expert witnesses, tore apart the state s case an exercise which cost Van der Vyver close to R9-million. They managed to prove that Van der Vyver s fingerprint was lifted from a glass and not a DVD cover, as alleged by police; that a blood stain on the bathroom floor of Lotz s flat did not match Van der Vyver s takkie; and that an ornamental hammer belonging to him could not have been the murder weapon. Unfortunately, justice is not the same for all. Pienaar said if Van der Vyver had not been able to afford his expert witnesses and a strong legal team, he very well might have been convicted. Freddie Boy The Untold Story can be purchased from Fogarty s Bookshop. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share