Phil Goduka Picture: Supplied Chief financial officer Daya to step in until permanent chief executive appointed The Mandela Bay Development Agency (MBDA) will start next month with a new, interim, leadership after the organisation s board yesterday accepted and ratified the resignation of its long-standing chief executive, Pierre Voges. Voges s amicable departure from the highly regarded development arm of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality follows turbulence within leadership structures, including the organisation s board, early last year. At yesterday s special board meeting it also resolved to appoint long-standing MBDA chief financial officer Ashwin Daya as acting chief executive. He will serve in that role until a new chief executive is recruited. An update on the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium operations, which were taken over by the MBDA from the beginning of this year, was also on the agenda for discussion at the board meeting, but fell away. MBDA spokesman Luvuyo Bangazi said: The board accepted and ratified the resignation and amicable parting of ways with current CEO Pierre Voges. The chairman of the MBDA board, Phil Goduka, thanked the outgoing CEO for his valuable services. He said: Under Pierre s leadership and management the MBDA emerged as a beacon of hope for Nelson Mandela Bay with key strategic urban renewal projects being introduced in [the metro] . Voges said: I have been around for 12 years and for most of that time, especially at the beginning, no one gave the MBDA a chance to change things. People were sceptical. You look back now and you ll see we have not done badly. The visible public and tourism infrastructure is there for all to see. The work the MBDA is doing in townships is groundbreaking and charting a new way forward. The agency has a good board as well as a new committed local government in place. Both the board and city leadership are keen to make the city competitive, he said. Goduka, who earlier pointed out that Daya, among other attributes, had been with the MBDA almost since its inception and was regarded as the driving force behind the agency obtaining four successive clean audits from the auditor-general, said he was satisfied with yesterday s leadership development. Drawing positive attention to the agency s low staff turnover, Goduka, however, also said both the board and the city s new political leadership had only been in place for a matter of months and the MBDA would spend some time assessing the way forward through this year. Some decisions would be made at a strategy and planning session early this year. Goduka also briefly addressed possibly the biggest recent development at the agency its management of the R2-billion stadium saying it would bring a new dimension to the organisation. It needs to be made clear though that the MBDA is still firmly focused on its development projects, some of which are in progress and some still in the pipeline. We are inheriting an institution we know very little of and are still looking at all of the details. We have, however, got a three-year window to see how best this asset can be used and managed, particularly as it was a public-funded stadium. The MBDA would seek support from the municipality, he said. The agency is recruiting a manager for the day-to-day operation of the stadium. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share