Grey High Grade 10 pupils, from left, Thabang Machelesi, 16, Thamsa Donald, 15, and Daniel Mat Yszak, 16, and Grey High rector Neil Crawford chat with Education MEC Mandla Makupula Picture: Eugene Coetzee A plan to streamline the education system from 23 districts to 12 would boost service delivery, Eastern Cape Education MEC Mandla Makupula said yesterday. It would ensure schools get the best service from the department. The plan is expected to be finalised this year. The [present] demarcation of the Department of Education is very awkward, Makupula said. For example, you have the Uitenhage district which stretches up to Western Cape borders. The transformation of the education system is key to us bringing change so that we fulfil the mandate of the constitution. Makupula was speaking at the Port Elizabeth College, where he engaged with the Port Elizabeth and Uitenhage District Education forums. The province had 5 534 schools the second-most after KwaZulu-Natal, which had 6 200 schools but yet there was little progress in the Eastern Cape schools, he said. Before I sleep, I think a lot about this department. It seems as if we have a 20ton truck carrying a box weighing 1kg. Our system is too vast and yet the load it carries is small. Makupula said there were 2 077 schools in the province that had between one and five teachers. These schools have a limited number of teachers who are also expected to teach several subjects, he said. This means in such schools not every subject is taught. During his presentation, the MEC also revealed that steps would be taken to shut the doors of those schools with fewer pupils. But they would be allowed to merge with thriving schools. This was in line with the South African Schools Act that empowered the MEC to take such a decision, he said. Schools should be restructured in such a way that they become viable so that children can get a better education. A school with one teacher is not viable. In such a situation, the act empowers me to ask such schools to give a reason why I cannot close them, he said. Primary schools with fewer than 135 pupils and high schools with fewer than 200 pupils will be compelled to furnish reasons why the MEC should not close them down. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share