New Brighton born jazz singer Nomfundo Xaluva will share the stage with national stars this weekend in the Cape in a musical tribute to Tata Nelson Mandela. Nelson Mandela The Song Lives On is a public concert that marries the well-known sound of Madiba s voice with live music and spoken word. It is a new collaboration by bass guitarist Concord Nkabinde and drummer David Klassen, two artists who dig into their years of musical performance and production to deliver a performance that re-visits the words of the late former president of South Africa. As Madiba once said: Music is a great blessing. It has the power to elevate and liberate us. It sets people free to dream. It can unite us to sing with one voice. Such is the value of music. Nkabinde and Klassen will present the five-piece outfit s work on Sunday, January 22 as part of the Oude Libertas Summer Season in Stellenbosch, interweaving new compositions as well as existing songs with an audio-visual presentation. Although Xaluva is a dynamic new voice on the Cape music scene, to her fans in Nelson Mandela Bay and Grahamstown where she attended school the pianist, composer and music educator is already an established talent. Along with Xaluva and Klassen, Nkabinde has invited two other well-established Cape Town-based artists to collaborate on the concert: Mark Fransman, an accomplished saxophonist, pianist, flautist, vocalist, composer and music educator; and Bulelwa Basse, a prolific performance poet, language facilitator and speaker. and community builder. This will be just as exciting for the audience as it will be for us as together we re-examine the words and ideals of an icon, Nkabinde said. Klassen said he was just as excited about the concert. It s got meaning and purpose. We are honouring the values and humanitarian ideals of a man who deserves to be honoured in this manner. Photographers Siphiwe Mhlambi and Mark Wessels provide images that add depth to this production. Interaction and counsel from the Nelson Mandela Foundation as well as the UWC Robben Island Mayibuye Archives has ensured a holistic approach, along with support in kind by Sennheiser SA and The Famous Idea Trading Co. The collaboration is a concoction of different musical styles, well-thought out musical compositions and arrangements, glued together by moments of improvisation. Tickets at R180 are on sale at Computicket and the concert starts at 6.30pm. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share