WARRIORS HERO: Zimbabwe s midfielder Kudakwashe Mahachi, centre, celebrates with teammates after scoring during their Africa Cup of Nations match against Algeria in Franceville, Gabon, last night Picture: AFP Mahrez saves Algeria s blushes in 2-2 draw Riyad Mahrez scored twice but Algeria had to settle for a 2-2 draw with rank outsiders Zimbabwe as their Africa Cup of Nations campaign got off to a slow start in Franceville, Gabon, last night. Newly-crowed African player of the year, Mahrez, gave Algeria an early lead in the Group B match, but Kudakwashe Mahachi quickly equalised, before a penalty on the half-hour mark by Nyasha Mushekwi had the Warriors of Zimbabwe in front. In an action-filled encounter, Zimbabwe whose build-up to the finals was overshadowed by a row over bonuses were just eight minutes away from claiming a famous victory before Mahrez struck again for the Desert Foxes to secure a share of the spoils. While Mahrez saved Georges Leekens side from a humiliating defeat, the draw was not the best start ahead of games against Tunisia and another pretournament favourite, Senegal, who met in a later match, also in Franceville (result on back page). There was a sparse crowd in the 20 000-seat stadium in the southeastern city, but those who were there witnessed a cracking match, with Zimbabwe recovering brilliantly from a nightmare start. They lost striker, Knowledge Musona, to an early injury and then fell behind in the 12th minute as Leicester City star Mahrez ran onto Islam Slimani s pass and cut inside Costa Nhamoinesu in the area before curling a delightful shot in off the far post with his left foot. But Zimbabwe were level only five minutes later, with South Africa-based Mahachi beating goalkeeper Rais Mbolhi with a speculative low strike on his left foot from the left-hand edge of the box. Remarkably, they went in front as the half-hour mark approached, Mushekwi sending Mbolhi the wrong way from the penalty spot after a foul in the area by Mokhtar Belkhither. Zimbabwe missed chances to go further in front, but only a great save by Mbolhi prevented Khama Billiat from adding to the lead, after he had turned Algerian captain Aissa Mandi inside out at the start of the second half. Algeria then stepped up the pressure, and Ramy Bensebaini headed against the bar and Elisha Muroiwa struck the frame of his own goal as he attempted to clear a Faouzi Ghoulam cross. In between those two incidents, Algeria appealed for a penalty when Mahrez went down when he collided with goalkeeper Tatenda Mkuruva in the box. Zimbabwe looked like they might hold on. Then substitute Cuthbert Malajila shot straight at Mbolhi and Algeria proceeded downfield as Mahrez s shot, from 18m out, went straight under Mkuruva and in to the net . Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share