As MPs closed out a torrid year in parliament, state capture, the Guptas and the ANC conference featured strongly in MPs’ farewell speeches. The farewell speeches are an annual tradition, made on the final day before parliament breaks for the festive season. In the past they have been lighthearted, but in recent years they have become more serious. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen opened the farewell speeches following on an incident in which ANC MP Mervyn Dirks was accused of assaulting a woman colleague in the house, so his speech took a more sombre tone. He detailed a “tumultuous” year in which President Jacob Zuma reshuffled his cabinet, and the Gupta leaks laid bare “the biggest smash and grab in our democratic history”. Steenhuisen said parliament had done good work, dealing with the Sassa crisis, the SABC and the Public Enterprises inquiry. He said MPs were “the last watchmen on the walls of our democracy” at a time when the Hawks were “so captured and compromised that they should be renamed the lovebirds”. Small Business Minister Lindiwe Zulu surprised even Speaker Baleka Mbete with a point of order. Zulu said the speeches seemed political and an opportunity to insult ANC members. Agang’s Andries Tlouamma, known for his acerbic humour, wished the ANC well at their conference but urged them not to “throw chairs or injure one another”. ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu honoured ANC MP Joanmarie Fubbs, turning 73, on her recently published book of poems. And Steenhuisen quoted one of her poems to close off his speech. The Democratic Alliance says that former Eskom chief executive Brian Molefe is unfit to be a Member of Parliament‚ referring to him as an “ethically compromised Zupta buddy with corruption clouds hanging over his head”. Parliament confirmed on Friday that Molefe had been nominated to "fill a vacancy on the… February 18, 2017 DA’s Steenhuisen seeks to debunk ‘myths’ that dog political landscape It is morally, practically and constitutionally impossible that apartheid could ever return, according to DA MP and parliamentary chief whip John Steenhuisen. Steenhuisen put considerable effort yesterday into debunking the “myths” that frequently dog the South African political landscape 22… July 18, 2016 Malema seethes at being told to behave A stern warning by Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande to the EFF sparked a fracas in the National Assembly last night as the debate on the state of the nation address drew to a close. As the final speaker in the debate on… February 19, 2015