Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa believes Fezekile Ntsukela Kuzwayo‚ also known as Khwezi‚ was raped. “I know how difficult and painful it is for a woman to garner up the courage to stand up and say: ‘Yes‚ I was raped.’ “It must be one of the most difficult decisions that she had to make‚ so‚ yes‚ I would believe her.” Ramaphosa was a guest on the Karima Brown show on Radio 702 on Thursday night. In 2005 Kuzwayo accused President Jacob Zuma of raping her at his home in Forest Town‚ Johannesburg. Zuma was deputy president of the ANC and country at the time. He denied the allegations. He said the sex was consensual and the court acquitted him of rape charges in 2006. Khwezi‚ who was HIV-positive‚ went into exile following the trial after receiving death threats. She later returned to South Africa and died in 2016. Ramaphosa initially answered the question by saying he had “to go with” the ruling of the court. He added that he at the same time had to believe Khwezi because of the bravery she showed in coming forward with the rape allegations. “What the judge said is not a fable. It is the reality that finally led to President Zuma’s acquittal‚” he said. The presidency has responded to Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa's statement that he believes Fezekile Ntsukela Kuzwayo‚ who accused President Jacob Zuma of rape. "The rape allegations against President Zuma were properly considered by a Judge of the High Court. Having evaluated the totality of the evidence‚ the court acquitted the… December 8, 2017 Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu has revealed her thoughts on the woman who accused President Jacob Zuma of rape. "Yes‚ I believe Khwezi. I understood the outcome of this particular unfortunate debacle to have been one where perhaps there was a misunderstanding of intent‚" Sisulu said in a radio interview… October 26, 2017 Zweli insists he never encouraged Khwezi to drop rape charge ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize denies ever undermining Fezekile “Khwezi” Kuzwayo’s right to legal recourse in her alleged rape case against President Jacob Zuma. Mkhize said this in response to an article in City Press yesterday accusing him of misleading Kuzwayo… September 18, 2017