Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane bears no grudges against Cape Town City midfielder Teko Modise and is willing to shake his hand when they meet for their Absa Premiership encounter at Loftus tomorrow. Modise made explosive revelations in his tell-all book‚ The Curse of Teko Modise‚ where he said he was not on speaking terms with Mosimane in the final two years of his career at Sundowns. But‚ as they are about to meet for the first time since the release of the book‚ Mosimane said he was willing to shake his hand because “he has not done anything wrong”. “Why not‚” was Mosimane’s quick reply when asked if he would be willing to shake Modise’s hand. “I only want to keep the good memories I had with him,” he said. “I saw the goals he scored‚ the passes he made. “He is a legend‚ a very good footballer and talent.” Mosimane said he was happy to have played a part in Modise’s career. “I am happy that I was part of his story from beginning to end. It is a good story,” he said. “He will tell you that I never said he must go and I never said his contract must not be renewed. “I always said that as long as he was at Sundowns‚ he would remain like Surprise Moriri or any other legend of the club. “He opted to go‚ he wanted game time and he was right because he was not playing here. Why should he stick around? “It was very difficult for him because Tiyani Mabunda has got quick and strong legs‚ Hlompho Kekana is still in the space and I play two in the midfield. “So it was a little bit of a difficult situation. He was right to go and play elsewhere.” Reflecting on Sundowns’ 4-1 thumping of hapless Bloemfontein Celtic on Saturday‚ Mosimane said he was happy that they controlled the game against a team that likes to play good football and does not sit back. “What helped us were the goals‚” he said. “In the first half we controlled the game as usual but we couldn’t get behind them. “I told the players at half time that we must not repeat the performance against Kaizer Chiefs, where we dominated but did not have the goals. “We had a good talk during the break that we must try to get behind them and get the goals. “We got the first goal from Thokozani Sekotlong and I am very happy for him that he scored. “He needed the break and it is incredible that whenever he starts he scores. “When we scored the second one‚ they reacted but they opened a little bit at the back and we scored the third and the fourth. “They play good football. Their midfielder Lantshene Phalane gave us problems with his left foot and diagonal passes. “I was happy when he was substituted.” Biography details strange period in former Pirates player’s life The new book on Teko Modise alleges he was stalked by a cult-like secret society and that he also gave R50 000 to a “Congo king” sangoma at his lowest ebb when he was at Orlando Pirates and dreams of a… November 30, 2017 SATURDAY’S Nedbank Cup final has not been the only thing occupying Teko Modise’s thoughts this week. “I still have ambitions to play for the national team. “I wouldn’t mind just one more game,” the candid Mamelodi Sundowns midfielder admitted ahead of the final showdown against Ajax Cape Town in Port… May 14, 2015 WHEN Pitso Mosimane selects his Bafana lineup tomorrow for next Wednesday’s friendly against Burkina Faso, he will have to experiment more than he prefers.Four of Mosimane’s squad regulars – Macbeth Sibaya, Katlego Mphela, Kagisho Dikgacoi and Teko Modise – are inactive, so Mosimane is tipped to break his loyalty policy… February 2, 2011