The ANC’s new president‚ Cyril Ramaphosa‚ hugged his opponent‚ Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma‚ as she conceded the race on Monday evening. Ramaphosa received 179 votes more than Dlamini-Zuma‚ with the former receiving 2‚440 votes. Mpumalanga premier David Mabuza won the deputy presidency of the ANC by a landslide‚ gaining 2‚538 votes. His opponent Lindiwe Sisulu fell short by more than 300 votes‚ receiving 2‚159 votes at the national conference.  Mabuza’s victory caused a celebratory frenzy among his supporters from his home province‚ Mpumalanga. Former ANC Secretary General Gwede Mantashe will remain in the ANC top six after he won the national chairperson position. Mantashe received 2‚418 votes over Nathi Mthethwa’s 2‚269 votes. Only 24 votes set apart Ace Magashule to become the incoming secretary general of the ANC. He was up against Senzo Mchunu. Jessie Duarte was retained in her position as deputy secretary general‚ winning the position from Zingiswa Losi. Meanwhile Paul Mashatile was voted in overwhelmingly as treasurer general – defeating Maite Nkoana-Mashabane. The newly elected leadership contained three leaders each from the two factions in the party. They hugged each other and posed for a picture.  Their contenders came on stage and accepted defeat by acknowledging the newly elected leaders. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a sharp lead yesterday in the contest to become the next head of the ANC, but the complexity of the leadership race means it is far from certain that he will become the next party leader and therefore the likely next president. A majority of… December 6, 2017 Irrespective of whether or not Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa wins the ANC elective conference next weekend, there are some hard questions he must reflect on about how he fought the battle. One of them is why he announced his leadership slate when it made no favourable impact on his campaign.… December 11, 2017 A colleague joked recently that journalists covering the ANC’s national conference next week would go on to spend Christmas still reporting from the Pretoria High Court with a grumpy judge presiding over the umpteenth urgent application brought by one party faction against another. An exaggeration of course, but one that… December 6, 2017