A woman – accused of murdering her lover’s three-year- old grandson – has appeared in a Port Elizabeth court. Lucricia Connelley, 30, of Booysen Park, is accused of murdering little Ashwin Moses of Chatty, the grandson of her boyfriend, Neil Moses. It is alleged that when Moses returned to his home in Chatty Extension 11 on Thursday evening last week, his grandson was missing. The following day, Ashwin’s body was found in bushes a few metres from the family home, police spokesman Warrant Officer Alwin Labans said. “The child appeared to have been strangled,” he said. After Connelley was questioned by police at the weekend, she was arrested. She first appeared in court on Monday for the child’s murder, but the case was transferred to a different court for a formal bail application. On Tuesday, Connelley appeared before magistrate Sanjani Naidoo and indicated she intended to plead guilty and abandon her bail application. However, in an about-turn yesterday, Connelley said she was not properly consulted by her Legal Aid lawyer, and told the court she intended applying for bail again. Appearing in court before Naidoo again, a tearful Connelley clutched a bag slung over her shoulder, while wiping her eyes. Through a Legal Aid representative, Connelley said she would plead not guilty to the murder charge, because she would not admit to all the evidence against her. Court records show that she had been charged with murder through an act of premeditation – which she now contests. Her formal bail application will be heard on December 14. A MAN accused of brutally beating an elderly woman and her son to death with a hammer abandoned his bail application yesterday, shortly before confirming he would plead guilty to the murders. Morne van der Linden, 29, stood solemnly in the dock as he appeared briefly in the Port Elizabeth… September 2, 2014 Police investigating killing of elderly Kunene Park woman found fresh Panayiotou link on cellphone, writes Kathryn Kimberley THE cellphone records of a man accused of murdering an elderly Kunene Park woman have helped police link him to the hit on schoolteacher Jayde Panayiotou – a crime which shocked the country… October 31, 2015 Unavailable cellphone evidence has delayed the Franziska Blöchliger murder case for more than a month. Four men accused of murdering‚ raping and robbing the teenager appeared in the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court in Cape Town on Friday (10/06/16). The prosecution told the court that the police investigation was almost complete barring… June 10, 2016