ANC Eastern Cape Chairperson Oscar Mabuyane has lauded the outcome of the ANC’s national conference‚ saying it will see the end of factionalism. Cyril Ramaphosa was elected as ANC president‚ beating Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma by 179 votes on Monday night. The rest of the party’s top six leadership is made up of members from both camps. “This is unity at its best. We are collapsing the slates‚” he told TimesLive. Mabuyane said that the leadership brought together both factions in the ANC. “This will collapse factionalism in how we elect leaders. We think we got a collective leadership that will take us to 2019 (general elections)‚” he said. Mabuyane said that despite the top six being split equally between both sides‚ the group would work effectively together. “There won’t be a disgruntled group as we leave this conference‚” he said. Mabuyane said fact that losing candidates to accepted the outcome and embraced the new leadership showed “political maturity”. Embattled ANC KwaZulu Natal Chairperson Sihle Zikalala took the mic in the plenary session to congratulate the new ANC leadership. Meanwhile‚ leader of the ANC’s veterans league Snuki Zikalala expressed his joy shortly after the leadership was announced. “Today the ANC won‚” he said to other veterans. Mabuyane slams executive for tensions over Lungisa election ANC provincial secretary Oscar Mabuyane has criticised the officials who presided over the election of Andile Lungisa as the ANC chairman of the Nelson Mandela Bay region, saying they failed the organisation and caused unnecessary tensions. He was speaking after the organisation’s… March 28, 2017 Provincial ANC leaders hold talks in PE ahead of extended national working committee meeting ANC Eastern Cape leaders, members of parliament and the Bhisho legislature held marathon talks in Port Elizabeth yesterday on how to deal with the mounting, unprecedented calls for President Jacob Zuma to step down. The province… April 4, 2016 Anarchy won’t change anything – provincial chairman No amount of anarchy is going to change the leadership of the ANC’s provincial executive committee (PEC) in the Eastern Cape. That was the message delivered by recently elected provincial chairman Oscar Mabuyane at an ANC PEC meeting with alliance partners and structures at Bayworld… November 6, 2017