A 33-year-old suspected drug dealer from Uitenhage has been arrested after he was caught allegedly transporting 24 bags of tik and 20 madrax tablets in the early hours of Tuesday morning. Metro police chief Yolanda Faro said the suspect, whose car was impounded, was pulled over in Hilwa Street in Kamesh by a patrolling police van. Faro said the officers noticed a white Toyota Corolla driving slowly in the street prompting them to pull the car over. “On stopping the car, a search was conducted. “The driver was found in possession of 20 mandrax tablets, 24 bags of Tik and a 1 bag of dagga. “He also had a broken bottleneck in his possession. “This is traditionally used to smoke the drug. “A further search of the vehicle led to a panga being found as well as R843 in cash,” she said. “The drugs and money in the car indicate that he was dealing in drugs and possibly en route to a drop off. The car was impounded for being used to transport the drugs,” Faro added. The suspect is due to appear in the Kamesh Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday for possession and dealing in drugs. POLICE in the Southern Cape and Central Karoo have taken massive strides in curbing the drug trade this festive season with tik (methamphetamine) worth about R1-million taken off the streets in the past week. In the latest incident, a Congolese man, 32, is due to appear in the George Magistrate's… December 23, 2014 Alleged dealer arrested for second time in week for possession of 600kg of drug A suspected dagga dealer – who was arrested last week but later released due to insufficient evidence – was rearrested yesterday with a whopping 600kg of the substance worth R1.4-million allegedly in his possession. Bongani Mgqatsa,… September 21, 2017 ABOUT R400 000 worth of drugs and R300 000 in cash were seized in two separate raids on suspected drug dens in Port Elizabeth. Both raids were the result of tip-offs from residents. A man, 35, was arrested in his flat in Annerley Terrace, Central, following a raid at 9.30pm… February 17, 2017