Chippa United coach Teboho Moloi says he has tweaked a few things since arriving at the club in September and the team remains a work in progress. Moloi‚ who replaced Daniel “Dance” Malesela three games into the season‚ said he has put more emphasis on the defensive aspect and he is excited that players are beginning to understand his way of doing things. “Chippa have been playing beautiful football but they never put effort in to defending and now we are getting that right‚” Moloi said at the launch yesterday of a New Year’s Cup for amateur teams to be held in Grahamstown from December 16 to 31‚ sponsored by Mercedes-Benz “You must understand that Chippa used to be a ball-retaining team – retention of the ball was the most important thing for them. “They never applied the aspect of finishing the product they created and at the same time to defend well when they did not have the ball.” Since arriving at Chippa‚ Moloi‚ who spent most of his career at Orlando Pirates as a player and assistant coach‚ is yet to lose a match in the league after nine matches following seven draws and two wins. “When I arrived at the club‚ I told the players that you can’t leave your house unguarded and we had to improve our defensive work because we have the aspect of playing with the ball‚” he said. “The second part of it was to put away the chances that we create but I am hopeful that we will get it right. “Our many draws are not because we don’t go into the opposition’s half, but they are there because we don’t have timing and don’t pick the spot at crucial times.” Moloi has guided the Chilli Boys to seventh place on the log. They are three points adrift of log leaders Baroka FC after 12 matches. “Things will come right with time. You can see that all the games that we have drawn we hit the crossbar‚ the upright or the keeper dives the wrong direction and the ball hit his legs‚” he said. “Even those matches that ended in draws were not dull. “Recently‚ against Free State Stars‚ it was the same story‚ against Maritzburg United we hit the upright four times. Against Bloemfontein Celtic we hit the upright three times and their keeper made good saves. “We just need to improve our concentration and things will be better going forward,” the coach said. Creating goal-scoring opportunities at speed is what Chippa United caretaker coach Teboho Moloi believes his team needs to fire them back to their winning ways. Chippa host Bloemfontein Celtic at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth on Sunday from 3pm and Moloi is banking on his team collecting… September 22, 2017 NEWLY appointed Chippa United caretaker soccer coach Teboho Moloi said his call-up to the Chilli Boys did not come as a surprise. Moloi was announced as the team’s caretaker coach by Chippa boss Siviwe Mpengesi yesterday, replacing Dan Malesela, who was fired this week. “I was involved with the team… September 15, 2017 After four consecutive draws, Chippa United coach Teboho Moloi has a two-week international break to reboot and sharpen his players. Moloi will be looking to kick start some winning momentum in the team when they play their next league game, against Maritzburg United at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in… October 3, 2017