SA body helped with probe into $10m sent to Caribbean The South African Football Association (Safa) has revealed that it spent R10-million assisting football governing body Fifa in an investigation into a disputed $10-million (R137.4-million) that was wired to the Caribbean after SA’s successful bid to stage the 2010 World Cup. Safa chief executive Dennis Mumble said he wrote a letter to Fifa last year offering assistance and the world football governing body happily accepted the help. “It was in support of Fifa’s investigation because we were never accused of anything other than what was in the media and on social media‚” Mumble said. “Fifa was looking into what was alleged by the Americans and by the Swiss authorities. But because the American investigation mentioned South Africans‚ we thought we also needed to clear the air. “I wrote a letter to Fifa early last year and said we would support the investigation and I asked them to let us know how we could do that. “Fifa took us up on that and they said ‘Thank you very much for your offer of support‚ we would like to know the following . . .’ South Africa was under attack for months after questions were asked about $10-million that was wired from a Fifa account in Switzerland to the Caribbean in 2008. Letters from South Africa to Fifa asked for the money to be managed by Trinidad and Tobago businessman and now disgraced former Fifa vice-president Jack Warner. The money was allegedly aimed at financing development projects in the Caribbean. Mumble said Safa were assisted by legal eagles Zola Majavu and Norman Arendse‚ among others‚ and submitted all the information to Fifa. “They [Fifa] asked for a lot of information‚ documents which we had to go and dig into our archives [for] in the 2010 World Cup Local Organising committee (LOC). The LOC handed some documents to us but not all the documents‚” he said. “We have got a sufficient amount of documents to prove beyond a doubt the sequence of events that led to the transfer of the $10-million to the Caribbean and we outlined all that. “That support required a lot of legal help to follow up and look into some of the things needed to compile reports‚ documents and do some research.” He said Fifa eventually finalised their report and nothing was found against South Africa as the country had never been accused of anything. Senior South African Football Association officials will travel to Switzerland in the coming days to voice their un- happiness with Fifa after the world governing body ordered Bafana Bafana to replay their 2018 World Cup qualifier against Senegal. Bafana beat the Senegalese 2-1 in Polokwane in November, but the qualifier… September 14, 2017 Mbalula denies bribe claim and demands apology from world soccer body SPORTS Minister Fikile Mbalula has reiterated the government’s stance that it did not pay a bribe to win votes in the race to host the 2010 Fifa World Cup. He said he would seek a meeting with new Fifa… March 18, 2016 The South African Football Association (Safa) has rubbished media reports that its president, Danny Jordaan, hired Johannesburg and New York lawyers to defend himself in the FBI’s corruption probe into Fifa. Jordaan, who is the Nelson Mandela Bay ANC mayoral candidate, hopes to retain his seat after the local government… August 3, 2016