Tough enforcement on regulations after dam levels remain critically low With water supplies remaining critically low, the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality is to ramp up enforcement of a raft of bylaws and regulations to reduce water consumption and curb wastage. Small, water-intensive businesses such as car washes are among those targeted, as well as housing schemes like townhouses and flats, with water metering practices in the latter a major water management concern. Hotter-than-average temperatures predicted for summer would also cause more demand on water usage. While car washes could face closure for not complying with water regulations, townhouses and flats will now have to install water meters at individual units. A strongly worded statement issued by municipal infrastructure and engineering executive director Dr Walter Shaidi and political head of infrastructure, engineering, electricity and energy Annette Lovemore spelt out the need to save water and the need to “stretch the little we have for as long a time as possible”. With immediate effect, the municipality will enforce bylaws around water consumption at car washes and residential complexes. These include that car washes recycle 60% of the water used. “All car washes will be issued with notices stating that if they are not either recycling as required or utilising a non-municipal supply of water by the time our dam levels reach 25%, they will be required to terminate their activities,” the municipal statement said. “All multi-dwelling precincts such as blocks of flats, townhouse complexes and retirement villages are required to install water meters to measure the water supplied to each individual unit, at the cost of the body controlling the relevant precinct.” It revealed that Shaidi, as executive director, was authorised to determine water usage that was wasteful and to take the appropriate actions. Gary Engelbrecht, of the property management company Jack Allers Group, who also runs a smart water meter business, said yesterday that residential complexes received bulk water supplies, with the water consumption being divided among residents rather than consumption being measured individually. “This system means there are fairness issues and usage challenges, with some residents in complexes using much more water than others. “Because the water usage is not monitored individually, some users don’t care how much water they use. “Having individual residents pay for the water they themselves consume will certainly help to reduce consumption,” Engelbrecht, who delivered a presentation on the matter to Lovemore last year, said. Engelbrecht said meters should be installed at individual residences in all new developments, but that the municipality should subsidise new meters for existing complexes. He said smart meters would also assist greatly in determining where leaks were. Estate agent Charlotte Vermaak, of Harcourts Nelson Mandela Bay, said installation of water meters could have a positive effect as it could be fairer to all residents in a complex, while forcing individuals to save water and use it more sparingly. Charl de Coning, who owns 082carwash at Baywest Mall, which washes about 80 vehicles a day, said he was complying with the regulations while doing his best to conserve and harvest water. “We are doing the 60/40 split in that we are recycling 60% of our water. “I installed rain tanks about a year ago, and we are fortunate to be able to get a significant amount of water from the tanks. We have a big catchment area on our roof which helps a lot,” he said. De Coning said car wash businesses were concerned about their future due to the drought. The owner of Extreme Clean Valet & Car Wash in Newton Park, who asked not to be named, said she was aware of the regulations and was concerned about the dire water situation. “In fact we use buckets to wash vehicles. In addition, we recycle our water, including using dirty water,” she said. “We are doing quite well, under the circumstances and I cannot afford to close my business. I employ people and it puts food on the table for them.” She said her business would not take on vehicles which were “too dirty”, such as being full of mud. “There is no way that you can get a lot of mud off using just a bucket. So we don’t do those vehicles. We just wash those that we can manage under the current water usage conditions,” she said. Ray Fincham, of Ray’s Car Wash in Sunridge Village, said the business used backwashed water from the shopping centre and also used water tanks. “We are quite fortunate to have access to that water, it is helping to limit our water consumption while saving water in general,” he said. Revealing that recent good rains, which exceeded 40mm in the dam catchment areas, had had very little impact on water levels in the region’s supply dams, the municipality said on average its dams were at 29.83% of capacity as of Friday. Attributing the lack of impact of the rains to parched grounds that simply soaked up the downpours in the region’s rain catchment areas, the municipality said the average dam levels only increased by about 1% from 28.6% of capacity on November 13 to 29.83% on December 1. Based on current water consumption levels, the metro’s supply would run out by August next year. “We expect major rains, according to the South African Weather Services, in October 2018. “That leaves us with a shortfall of two months during which time our only source of water will be the Nooitgedagt scheme. “This scheme provides about half of the water we currently use. Having only this source is not a feasible option. “We are all obliged to do everything that we can to use less, in order that the supply from our dams can last as long as we need it to,” the statement said. This means that all restrictions applicable to water from the municipality will remain in place and “are enforceable in terms of the Nelson Mandela Bay Metropolitan Municipality: Water and Sanitation Services By-Law”. Hendrick Mphande, Kathryn Kimberley and Rochelle de Kock A MAJOR water disaster has been averted in Nelson Mandela Bay, with municipal workers repairing a large feeder pipe and water supply expected to be restored to the affected areas by this afternoon. On Thursday, two feeder pipes from dams supplying water… August 6, 2012 300 plumbers to fix leaks as project launches this week In a bid to drastically cut the cost of water waste, the municipality will launch a programme at the end of this week which will see 300 plumbers sent into wards to fix leaks. This project, the municipality hopes, will… July 13, 2016 From bubble wrap to stop pool water from evaporating, to showering with a bucket at your feet, Nelson Mandela Bay residents are becoming more savvy in a bid to save and reuse water. This comes in the wake of punitive water restrictions which the city imposed last month. Yesterday, infrastructure,… January 14, 2017