Team’s morale intact despite defeat to Polokwane in hard-fought home game Chippa United’s morale is still intact despite their Absa Premiership 1-0 loss to Polokwane City at the Nelson Mandela Bay in Port Elizabeth Stadium on Saturday, coach Teboho Moloi said. A late penalty by hard-running City striker Rodney Ramagalela made the difference between the two sides. The loss to Rise and Shine sees the Chilli Boys end the first half of the Absa Premiership on a low after their second consecutive defeat. “We expected to get the three points and now I realise that there is too much complacency in the team,” Moloi said. “We thought that we lost against Ajax Cape Town because of the hype. “Some of the players cannot handle everything that is happening. They cannot withstand the pressure of being at the top. “They are used to being at the bottom of the log where they would have to fight relegation and they cannot handle the hype that comes with the praises they have been receiving,” he said. “There are a lot of factors that affect the players and we need to sit down and iron out all the problems the team is facing. There are plenty of psychological factors that need to be fixed. Moloi said the team needed to go back to basics and start the second half of the season on a good foot. “The team needs to start doing what they have been doing all along. “The morale in the team is intact because the boys still have their heads held high after losing again. “Some of the players are young and have experienced being part of a growing team. “The team is going through a major transformation,” Moloi said. “The hype is all new to them and we need to make sure they get used to it. “They need to understand that when you are at the top, you need to start working even harder. “It is easy to go up but it is more difficult to maintain that position. “We need to work on these aspects and fix all things surrounding the team,” he said. Polokwane City coach Bernard Molekwa praised Chippa United for the sterling performance and expressed hopes his team would maintain the winning mentality. “Chippa United played really well today and this was not an easy victory for us,” Molekwa said. “We fought till the last minute. They came at us with guns blazing but I am happy with how my players were able to hold them off. “We really needed the three points,” he said. Chippa United coach Teboho Moloi admitted that his side "were not in the park but were somewhere else" when they were humbled 1-0 by bottom of the log Ajax Cape Town in a Premiership match played at Bidvest Stadium on Saturday night. The Chilli Boys had come to this match… December 10, 2017 POLOKWANE City soured what was supposed to be Roger Sikhakhane's celebration on Saturday, following his appointment as Chippa United head coach after months of playing caretaker. The Chilli Boys' 3-1 defeat at the Old Peter Mokaba Stadium was only their second Premiership loss in the nine matches since Sikhakhane picked… December 8, 2014 Award-winning coach Moloi seeking decisive win against Polokwane City Chippa United coach Teboho Moloi says his team will be looking to bully Polokwane City off the park in their final Absa Premiership match of the year at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium today (3.30pm). The newly-appointed head coach is oozing confidence,… December 16, 2017