Whether you are looking to conquer your fear of heights, or are in search of an adrenalin rush, you might want to consider taking a plunge down the Bloukrans River Bridge this summer season. The bridge is the world’s highest commercial and natural bungy bridge, and has been frequented by numerous public figures, including Prince Harry, Jack Osborne and the Zuma family. For more than 25 years, Face Adrenalin, the company which runs the Bloukrans bungy, has given thrill seekers the chance to bungy jump from the 216m-high bridge in Tsitsikamma. On arrival, bungy jumpers must walk a fear-inducing bridge in order to get to the area where the jump takes place. Then jumpers are secured in a full-body harness that connects at the ankles. When it is time to take the dive, Face Adrenalin bungy professionals assist you to the edge of the bridge and count you down as you take the death-defying plunge. According to The Herald photographer and Bloukrans bungy jumping regular Eugene Coetzee, the instructors might even give you a nudge to help you along if anxiety gets the better of you! Of his experience at the Bloukrans bungy, Coetzee says: “It’s exhilarating . . . it’s an adrenalin rush.” His advice to first-time bungy jumpers is to “take someone with you . . . it’s more fun with others”. Prospective jumpers should note that there are no official clothing restrictions but it would be best to wear comfortable active wear and a pair of trainers. Another option would be to buy clothing from the Face Adrenalin store. After the jump, visit the Cliffhanger restaurant and bar, where you can watch fellow bungy jumpers on the big screen. Photos and a DVD of each jump may be bought after the experience. To make a booking, contact Face Adrenalin at (042) 281-1458, 071-109-6872 or e-mail: book@faceadrenalin.com. For more information about the Bloukrans Bridge bungy, visit www.faceadrenalin.com. MILLIONS of rands in royalties from a bungy jumping operation have allegedly disappeared into a community trust led by a pastor. Pastor Wilson Wogane, chairman of the Tsitsikamma Forest Village Trust, and a group of trustees are accused of misappropriating development funding intended for villages. The trust was established almost… September 8, 2014 A 36-year-old man jumped to his death from  the Bloukrans Bridge on the N2 near Storms River today. It is alleged that the man parked his silver VW Amarok near the 216m-high bridge and was seen by witnesses as he jumped from it. Emergency medical services were on the scene today… November 17, 2015 Brian Hayward SOME CEOs hold team meetings. Others shout. But Denton Goodford, the head of national insurer Multisure – which is based in Port Elizabeth – has chosen to motivate staff to give an extra push for sales at the end of a tough year by vowing to bungee jump… November 26, 2013