ANC presidential candidate Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma has hit back at claims that her campaign may be “buying votes” and using money to influence delegates to its national conference. In her last campaign speech before this weekend’s conference‚ Dlamini-Zuma said she did not have to buy delegates. “We have worked. We have been to every corner of this country‚ addressing cadres’ forums. When they elect us‚ they will elect us out of conviction‚” she said. Dlamini-Zuma was speaking at a gala dinner hosted by the ANC Women’s League in her honour in Kempton Park on Wednesday evening. “No leader will be proud of being elected out of money‚” she said‚ later adding that ANC delegates could not be bought. Dlamini-Zuma said “history has already been made” as she will be the first woman to be on the ballot paper for ANC president. “As we close this campaign now‚ it’s in the hands of delegates and God‚” she said. Dlamini-Zuma said she was willing to accept any outcome of the conference‚ adding: “Whatever happens‚ the ANC must emerge the winner.” The gala dinner was attended by Ministers Bathabile Dlamini‚ Thoko Xasa‚ Joe Maswanganyi‚ Maite Nkoana-Mashabane‚ Faith Muthambi and Mmamoloko Kubayi. A number of songs and dances were dedicated to Dlamini-Zuma and preempted her victory at the conference. Dlamini-Zuma is up against Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa‚ whose supporters are also expecting victory. The former African Union Commission chairperson said ANC delegates must reflect the aspirations of South Africans. “Elect leaders who won’t use the ANC for factional battles‚ but will use the ANC as a vehicle for the oppressed to access opportunity‚” she said. Dlamini-Zuma ended her address by thanking the Women’s League for leading her campaign. ANC presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma has lashed out at white people for criticising radical economic transformation and saying it amounted to looting the state. She was speaking yesterday at a farewell prayer for her at her hometown of Bulwer in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands, ahead of the ANC national elective conference… December 11, 2017 Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a sharp lead yesterday in the contest to become the next head of the ANC, but the complexity of the leadership race means it is far from certain that he will become the next party leader and therefore the likely next president. A majority of… December 6, 2017 President Jacob Zuma is considering appointing his ex-wife, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, to his cabinet when she steps down as chairwoman of the AU Commission in an attempt to ease her path to become his successor, according to government insiders. This comes as a social media campaign in support of Deputy President… January 18, 2017