Sharma in lead as Joburg tournament to finish today The Joburg Open will finish on a Monday for the first time in its history after a heavy thunderstorm forced the suspension of yesterday’s final round at the Randpark Golf Club. Play was suspended at 1pm yesterday. India’s Shubhankar Sharma is leading by four strokes with 11 holes to play on the Firethorn course. South African Erik van Rooyen is his nearest challenger on 18 under par and with 10 holes of his final round remaining. Sharma started the final round with a five-stroke lead and birdied the second hole to climb six strokes clear of the field. But Van Rooyen made four birdies in five holes from the third to keep some sort of pressure on the leader. With the next players on 14 under, it appears a contest between these two golfers to be crowned the champion at this year’s Joburg Open. “I’m going to treat it like another day,” Sharma said. He has been remarkably composed beyond his 21 years and considering he is new to this experience, having never before led a major tournament going into the final round. “I’m going to do the same things which I’ve been doing in the last four days. It is frustrating because you get into a groove when you start and you don’t want to come off. “I saw the clouds coming on the seventh hole and I was praying we could finish. But we can’t help it. I’m playing well so I want to continue doing that,” he said. As frustrating as the delay was, which started with lightning and rain and then even included hail at one point, Sharma is enjoying every minute of being in contention in a tournament he almost did not play in. After initially struggling with his visa application, he considered not travelling to South Africa and did so at the last minute. And he spent the rain delay relaxing as best as he could. “I tried to calm myself so I went to talk to people, and my father on the phone. I had to cancel my flight tickets but that was an easy thing to do considering the position I’m in.” James Morrison, of England, and Tapio Pulkkanen, of Finland, were 14 under after seven and eight holes respectively and seemingly out of contention for first place. However, with the top three finishers securing places at the 2018 British Open in Carnoustie in July, both had everything to play for. Should Sharma triumph, he will become only the fourth foreigner to win the Joburg Open after Argentine Ariel Canete, Dane Anders Hansen and Englishman Andy Sullivan. GEORGE Coetzee played the 18th at Heritage Golf Club three times yesterday, and he made birdie each time. But it was only on the third attempt that his birdie was enough to win the inaugural AfrAsia Bank Mauritius Open. He carded two-under-par 69 in regulation play in the final round,… May 11, 2015 GAUTENG North's Hendrikus Stoop might want to consider buying some real estate in the Eastern Cape after claiming his second provincial title in the region this season. Seven months after Stoop stepped into the winner's circle at the EP-Border Srixon- Cleveland Strokeplay Championship at Port Elizabeth Golf Club for the… November 4, 2014 Alvin Reeves PORT Elizabeth’s Luke Jerling achieved what very few college golfers are able to do . . . win in their freshman year. The tall left-hander birdied two of his last four holes at the Wolfpack Spring Open to win his first career college tournament in Raleigh, North Carolina,… April 17, 2012