Talks on Mako’s future abruptly ended The proposed purchase of Chippa United wingback Paseka Mako by league leaders Mamelodi Sundowns in the January transfer window has been nixed by the club’s owner, Patrice Motsepe, after he found out that the promising player used to be a junior with the Brazilians. Mako‚ whose attacking play caught the eye of Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane‚ was the subject of a recent approach to Chippa by the Pretoria-based club. A potential deal to sell Mako to the Brazilians was discussed but suddenly cancelled when Motsepe said no. The club owner did not want to spend money on a player who had previously been part of the Sundowns structures. Mako joined Chippa United from Cape All Stars, one of many players from the Cape Town club taken to Port Elizabeth by former coach Dan Malesela. But before that Mako‚ who has represented South Africa at under-23 level, was a junior with Sundowns. Motsepe’s anger goes back to the infamous loss and repurchase of Lerato Chabangu which cost Sundowns more than a few million and made the club and their freespending president a laughing stock. Chabangu signed a pre-contract with SuperSport United in 2009 at the height of his career after Sundowns had moved too slowly to offer him an extension of his deal. SuperSport’s sneaky move to snatch Chabangu from under Sundowns’ noses infuriated the mining magnate so much that he allowed Chabangu to leave six months before the end of his contract, as SuperSport got him for free. But Motsepe then decided he wanted the player back and paid SuperSport a veritable fortune to purchase a player who had been his just six months earlier. Chabangu did not play for the club because of a knee injury and treatment for alcohol abuse‚ costing Motsepe an entire season of wages without him kicking a ball. Meanwhile, Ajax Cape Town are on the brink of signing Kenyan international Jesse Were, who completed a stellar season in Zambia’s Super League and has been on the radar of several South African clubs for a while. A total of 25 goals in all competitions from Were this year helped Zesco United to the Zambian championship as well as a place in the quarterfinals of the African Confederation Cup‚ where they were narrowly beaten by SuperSport United. Relegation-haunted Ajax will be looking to the 27-year-old to ease their crisis in front of goal, where they have managed just 13 strikes in 14 league games. – TimesLIVE The future is bright for young Paseka Mako, Chippa United coach Dan Malesela said. Mako was one of the key contributor’s in the team’s recent Nedbank Cup win over Witbank Spurs. They beat the National First Division side 1-0 to book themselves a spot in the last 16 of the… March 23, 2017 CHIPPA United have set their sights on claiming another major scalp when they host Mamelodi Sundowns in a Premier Soccer League clash at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium tonight (7.30pm). The Chilli Boys are inspired by the fact that their challenge for the league title is back on track. This after… October 22, 2014 CLUB owner Chippa Mpengesi is set to add the Sundowns pair of striker Edward Manqele and the speedy Richard Henyekane to his growing list of potential PSL big- name stars. The Chippa United boss has already added 14 new players, including the highly gifted Thamsanqa Sangweni, to his PSL rookies… July 24, 2014