An explosion rocked New York’s Port Authority, one of the city’s busiest commuter hubs, on Monday morning and police said one suspect was injured and in custody but that no-one else was hurt in the rush-hour incident. Police confirmed one person was in custody but were not yet identifying the device used. Local news channel WABC cited police sources as saying a possible pipe bomb detonated in a passageway below ground at Port Authority and WPIX cited sources as saying a man with a “possible second device” has been detained in the subway tunnel.  The bus terminal was temporarily closed, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said in a Twitter statement. “There was a stampede up the stairs to get out,” said Diego Fernandez, one of the commuters at Port Authority. “Everybody was scared and running and shouting.” New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio and President Donald Trump have been briefed on the incident, according to local media and the White House. News of the incident jarred financial markets as trading was getting underway for the week. Standard & Poor’s 500 index emini futures pared gains, the dollar weakened against the yen and US Treasury securities prices gained on a modest flight-to-safety bid. – Reuters More than 40 killed, 500 injured by explosions at goods storage facility ENORMOUS explosions in a major Chinese port city killed at least 44 people and injured more than 500, officials said yesterday, leaving a devastated industrial landscape of incinerated cars, toppled shipping containers and burnt-out buildings. An AFP reporter… August 14, 2015 Another man held in ongoing probe after bucket bomb injures dozens on London Underground British police made a second arrest yesterday in the bombing of a London Underground train, as their probe into the attack widened. The man, 21, who has not been named, was detained in Hounslow, on the… September 18, 2017 HUNDREDS of residents displaced by huge explosions last week in the Chinese port of Tianjin demanded compensation yesterday, as authorities worked to complete a sweep of the blast site for dangerous chemicals. The death toll from the two blasts on Wednesday rose to 114, officials said. More than 700 people… August 18, 2015