SA Rugby have scheduled two of the Springboks’ June tests next year against England at altitude in an effort to give the home team every chance of series victory. The three tests will take place at Ellis Park in Johannesburg‚ the Free State Stadium in Bloemfontein and Newlands in Cape Town on June 9‚ 16 and 23 respectively. Under Eddie Jones England have become a formidable team‚ winning 22 of their 23 tests since the start of last year and risen to No 2 in the world rankings. The Boks have gone the other way and before this weekend’s match against Wales, had dropped to No 5 in the world with 11 losses in 24 tests in the same period. The Springboks are also likely to be under a new coach next June‚ with Coetzee expected to be axed after SA Rugby’s executive council meets on December 13‚ to end two years of under-performance by the national team. It will be England’s first visit to South Africa in six years. England last visited in 2012 when the Springboks won the first two of the three tests‚ while the final encounter ended in a draw in Heyneke Meyer’s first series in charge. England have not won a test in South Africa since the two teams clashed in Bloemfontein in 2000. Out of the 13 previous tests between the Springboks and England in South Africa‚ the visitors have won three‚ while one ended in a draw. “Under Jones the English have reestablished themselves as one of the powerhouses of world rugby,” said SA Rugby CEO Jurie Roux. “Our history against England goes back more than a century and we are looking forward to welcoming them back to South Africa next year in what promises to be a tough tour. “In 2012‚ they played in Johannesburg‚ but it’s been 10 years since they last visited Bloemfontein‚ while the Cape Town test will be England’s first visit to the Mother City since 1998.” This weekend’s match could be last at Newlands against Kiwis It has been nine years between All Black visits to Cape Town, and this weekend’s Rugby Championship fixture against the Springboks could be their last at Newlands. It is only a matter of time before Western Province Rugby moves across… October 5, 2017 Team to face England Saxons will adopt Bok coach blueprint AFTER spending a week with the Springboks‚ South Africa A coach Johan Ackermann intends to stick as closely as possible to Allister Coetzee’s blueprint when his team take on an England Saxons side on Friday. Ackermann’s team will square up… June 7, 2016 PORT Elizabeth is in line to host a blockbuster test between the Springboks and Ireland at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium next year. Rugby insiders have said the city is a strong favourite to stage one of the three tests between the fierce rivals. The tests will be played in… November 3, 2015