The love story between South African music legends Caiphus Semenya and Letta Mbulu is one of persistence and putting each other first, and has seen them win over the hearts of fans for decades. Speaking ahead of their performance at a special concert at the State Theatre in Pretoria this weekend, and in Port Elizabeth on December 30, the couple opened up in a question and answer interview about their romance and the lessons they’ve learnt. Caiphus: “We first met at a show. She was performing and my band was performing. We would be together backstage and listen to each other when we performed. “Over time we spoke and there was chemistry. “My first thoughts when I met her was that she was an incredible artist. We connected immediately but there was also a respect. “I respected her as an artist and I think she saw something similar in me.” Letta: “Our first date was at a movie theatre in Durban. We went to go watch King Kong. We had spoken before and we got along well but that was our first real date. Even now it is perhaps one of my favourite memories. Caiphus: “I asked her: ‘Would you like to go to a movie with me?’ She was reluctant at first but she said ‘okay’. We really enjoyed it. Letta: “I knew I could be in love when he threw an apple at me on a train. It was a massive green apple and he threw it from the compartment he was in, into mine. It was like a movie but it was so real. We each bit a piece of the apple and the fireworks were flying. “I can’t remember our first kiss because it has always been about the connection with the person. Caiphus: “I also don’t remember. It was such a long time ago and there was a lot of things going on at the time and we just had eyes for each other. Letta: “My favourite date was our first but I also liked our trip to the botanical gardens in Cape Town. We sat on brown paper and had chocolates. It was nice. It was warm and we were just talking sweet nothings. “What I love most about him is that I can speak to him. We communicate very well and speak about everything. We are political animals and analyse everything under the sun. Caiphus: “Everybody fights but the key is to try to understand where the person is coming from. There are so many factors that influence a human being and their situation and you have to understand that. “The bottom line is we love and respect each other and we go back to that when we disagree so that we don’t take it any further than it needs to go.” Letta: “The most expensive gift he ever gave me was my children. They bring me so much happiness. Caiphus: “The most expensive gift she ever gave me was love. Letta: “If I could go back to when we were younger, I wouldn’t change a thing. I have no regrets.” The power couple will be among the national and local acts performing at the sixth annual Ebubeleni Music Festival at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Saturday, December 30.
Tickets are available at Computicket for general access at R250, R300 for Golden Circle, R750 for VIP and R50 for Cooler Box Tickets. No tickets will be sold at the gate.ADVERTISINGinRead invented by Teads
There are also parking tickets, R50 at Computicket, to park inside the grounds.
The gates will open at 10am and the festival starts at noon.
For more information about the event, contact Mahambehlala Communications on 081-738-8792 or, alternately, e-mail:
info@mahambehlalacomms.co.za It has been seven years since we heard from Ibokwe singer Thandiswa Mazwai, and if her latest release is anything to go by, the wait has been worth it. Yesterday, the singer, 40, confirmed that she had signed to recording label Universal Music, while also sharing her latest serving, called… November 10, 2016 It was an experience of a lifetime for the Madiba Bay Jazz Orchestra when they performed among jazz greats at the 20th Standard Bank Joy of Jazz Festival at the Sandton Convention Centre last weekend. Joined by Port Elizabeth-born award-winning jazz vocalist Phinda Mtya and Sisonke Xhonti on tenor saxophone,… October 6, 2017 Musician, fashion designer and mother of three Moonchild Sanelly is busy taking the South African music industry by storm with her undeniably unique sound. Real name Sanelisiwe Twisha, Moonchild was born in Port Elizabeth and raised between New Brighton, KwaMagxaki and KwaDwesi, where she grew up listening to music with… February 18, 2017