Zinzi Tofu speaks with passion and pride about Xhosa culture. Asked why she thinks it’s important to do so, and for others to learn about her way of life, she said simply: “It’s really important because it’s totally different from other cultures. “In the Eastern Cape, 80% of people are Xhosa. It forms a huge part of the essence of what the Eastern Cape is.” Tofu and her team host cultural tours at the award-winning Ngxingxolo Cultural Village, welcoming guests in song, with Tofu beating on a drum.  The tour settles down then as Tofu explains various cultural aspects among the Xhosa, including something I’d never heard of before – intonjane, the female rite of passage – courting and the roles of men and women in the home. She also shows off the kraal, where only men are allowed to enter, and the intonjane hut where a young woman is kept while undergoing the female rite of passage. Unlike the male rite of passage which includes circumcision, there is no physical contact with the young woman during intonjane. “To people [visiting] it’s complicated but to me, I live in the village,” she said. “I’m not speaking of something I’ve read in a book. It’s my every day. I live in the village.” The tour also includes a lunch of traditional Xhosa food, such as umngqusho (samp and beans), steam bread, stew and spinach. Wild Coast a treasure chest crammed with hidden gems  Areena Riverside Resort caters for the whole family  Mix of rolling hills, winding rivers, rocky cliffs, sandy bays and warm ocean a treat, writes Karen van Rooyen It’s pristine, beautiful and – for the most part – unexplored. And perhaps, selfishly, unexplored is exactly how I’d like the Wild Coast to stay. Situated mainly in the former homeland… December 2, 2017 Love of home language leads to research uniting people of Zimbabwe and SA Writing a thesis entirely in Xhosa is rare, but Rhodes PhD recipient Hleze Kunju has done just that. Calling his thesis a milestone for Xhosa academic writing, Kunju collected his doctoral degree, written completely in Xhosa, at… April 24, 2017 SHE joined a Nelson Mandela Bay teenage band as a dancer, now Zizipho Bekapi is preparing to tour Europe with one of South Africa's most well- known choral groups as a singer. The Afro-jazz band Modern Tribe lead singer is performing in four countries with the Grammy award-winning Ladysmith Black… May 6, 2014