Two corrupt Nelson Mandela Bay traffic officers were found guilty yesterday in the Port Elizabeth Commercial Crimes Court of accepting bribes for traffic violations. Nosicelo Ncapai, 43, of Walmer, was convicted on two counts of corruption, while Mzukisi Mrara, 47, of KwaDwesi, was found guilty of three. The first charge against Mrara and Ncapai stems from April 20 2015. Truck driver Mzwabantu Sam was parked on a yellow line while off-loading goods in front of a business. Sam testified that Ncapai had told him he faced a R1 000 fine for stopping on the yellow line – unless he “had something” to give to them. Sam said he took out R200 and was told to drop it through the traffic car’s window. He was told to add R150. Sam reported the bribe to police. The second count relates to another incident on April 20. Ncapai and Mrara demanded R100 from taxi driver Xola Mavata after they found his professional driver’s permit had expired and that his vehicle was not roadworthy. Ncapai told Mavata he could go if he brought them a drink. He paid R100. The third charge, against Mrara, occurred on April 2 2015, when he stopped a driver whose car tyres were worn and the vehicle’s licence had expired. Mrara told Justice Manyena to pay a “small amount” for a reduced fine. Manyena gave Mrara two R50 notes and was fined R100. The case was postponed to December 14 for pre-sentencing reports. TWO traffic officers based at the Sidwell traffic department made a brief appearance in the Port Elizabeth Commercial Crimes Court yesterday for allegedly receiving bribes totalling R500 from motorists in exchange for quashing traffic fines. Nosicelo Ncapai, 43, of Sisonke Village, Walmer and Mzukisi Mrara, 47, of Mhlenza Street, KwaDwesi… June 14, 2016 Mrara says there was no attack on family – but remarks clearly heard on recording IN an attempt to stave off a possible defamation lawsuit, Eastern Cape SACP boss and ANC chief whip Mzoleli Mrara has denied ever attacking the powerful Nelson Mandela Bay Jeeva family. Mrara wrote to the… March 25, 2016 BULLETS flew on Port Elizabeth’s busy M4 freeway yesterday as suspected gang members allegedly attempted to kill an accused rival gang member in a brazen, hit-style attack in midmorning traffic. A high-speed car chase and subsequent suspected gang shooting on the city’s main freeway left two people wounded and heavy… February 10, 2016