The DA’s federal legal commission is yet to make a decision on the fate of the party’s youngest councillor in Nelson Mandela Bay, Rashied Adams. Adams, 26, serves ward 1. He was given until yesterday to explain why he should not be fired for skipping payments of a compulsory tithe to the party. Adams is also under investigation for alleged poor performance. On Thursday he was served with a notice to suspend his membership of the party following an internal disciplinary matter relating to the unpaid money. Yesterday DA Eastern Cape chairman Andrew Whitfield said Adams had responded to the letter. “Adams responded to the cessation letter [yesterday]. The federal legal commission will now make a determination,” Whitfield said. He said it was unclear when the decision would be made. By yesterday evening a decision had still not been made. On Thursday, Weekend Post’s sister paper The Herald reported that residents had complained that Adams was often absent from duty and ignored their messages and calls. PR councillor Leander Kruger was roped in by the party to help run the ward. The ward comprises of a part of Summerstrand, Seaview, Mount Pleasant, Schoenmakerskop, Lovemore Park, Sardinia Bay, Deer Park, Bushy Park and the southern portion of Kragga Kamma. Should Adams’s position become vacant a by-election would be held for ward 1. Whitfield would not answer questions on the possibility of an election. WATCH: An interview with Rashied Adams ahead of the local government elections in 2016.  The DA has given its youngest Nelson Mandela Bay councillor until today to explain why he should not be fired for skipping payments on a compulsory tithe to the party. This comes as Ward 1 councillor Rashied Adams is also under investigation for alleged poor performance, with some residents complaining… December 8, 2017 HE is a political infant, a “newbie” of sorts, and he has his sights on leading the biggest, most diverse and upmarket ward in Nelson Mandela Bay – Ward One. The DA has pinned its hopes on 24-year-old final year B Sc environmental science student Rashied Adams to convince some… April 9, 2016 Taking the DA to rural areas and strengthening its structure were top of the agenda at the first provincial executive committee meeting held in Grahamstown on Friday. DA provincial leader Nqaba Bhanga announced the fully fledged PEC yesterday following his election victory in East London earlier this month. New additions… May 15, 2017