Thousands of voting delegates who are mainly from the Cyril Ramaphosa-alligned provinces, according to branch nominations, have yet to vote at Nasrec. These include more than 600 voting delegates from the Eastern Cape alone and those from Gauteng and Limpopo. Pictures supplied to HeraldLIVE taken after 6am today confirm that almost half of the Eastern Cape delegates were sleeping on their chairs while others opted to sleep on the floor, as they await their turn to cast their vote. ANC PEC member Pemmy Majodina confirmed that “we are still waiting patiently.” Voting started just after midnight. First to go were provinces such as Mpumalanga, Northern Cape, Western Cape and North West. The biggest delegation, with more than 800 delegates, was KwaZululu-Natal and they voted after 4am. The ANC’s 54th national conference marks the end of President Jacob Zuma’s tenure as head of the party. The winning candidates are expected to be announced on Monday afternoon. The conference started on Saturday but the programme only kicked into full gear on Sunday afternoon. Around 4‚700 delegates from nine provinces were due to cast their vote. By 6am only four provinces were still left to make their mark: Eastern Cape‚ Gauteng‚ Limpopo and KwaZulu-Natal. On Sunday evening the formal nomination process revealed the candidates for the top six positions. Despite several names being suggested as presidential hopefuls‚ in the end only Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and former African Union chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma remained in the running when the official nominations process began shortly after 6pm on Sunday night. The rest of the nominations are as follows: -Deputy president David Mabuza
Lindiwe Sisulu -National chairperson Gwede Mantashe
Nathi Mthethwa -Secretary General Senzo Mchunu
Ace Magashule -Deputy Secretary General Jessie Duarte
Zingiswa Losi -Treasurer General Paul Mashatile
Maite Nkoana-Mashabane Attention now on voting delegates as close contest enters crucial final phase As the race for the ANC presidency enters its final phase this week, the focus is set to be on voting delegates rather than branch nominations in a tight race that could swing either way between deputy president… December 4, 2017 An undisclosed number of Eastern and Western Cape delegates who were left out of the ANC conference currently being held in Nasrec have now been included in the conference. ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte announced this on Sunday morning. The nominations for the ANC's top six positions are expected… December 17, 2017 The ANC is to deploy a total of 4 723 voting delegates from its branches to the national elective conference in December‚ with KwaZulu-Natal having the biggest delegation at 870. The total number of delegates is a marginal increase from the previous conference in 2012, when there were 4 500… October 7, 2017