The ANC has no plans of becoming a rural party, outgoing ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe told the media on Monday morning. “We don’t want to be a rural party. We want to regain the lost ground,” he said while addressing the media in Nasrec where the party is having its 54th national elective conference. He said despite the party losing some metros at last year’s local elections, the aim was to craft a new growth path to ensure the party remained at the helm by convening policy conferences, reviewing outcomes of each election and electing new leaders. Mantashe said the party was in no position to declare it has come “to the end of life”. “Let us finish ourselves. That is not what we are working towards,” he added. This year marked the 10 year of the Cala-born leader being in Luthuli House as the ANC “chief opperations office”. He described his term of office as quite a challenging period as he had to deal with several scandals including the Nkandla scandal, Public Protector Thuli Madonsela’s state of capture report as well as string of court cases the party’s President Jacob Zuma has been dealing with during his last term of office in particular. African National Congress secretary-general Gwede Mantashe on Tuesday (08/23/2016) said a proposal by the ANC Youth League that the party hold an early elective conference was "not a bad idea"‚ and was being discussed. However‚ he said the ANC could not go to an early conference just because of the results… August 23, 2016 African National Congress (ANC) secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said that‚ despite 2016 being a difficult year for the party‚ Sunday will not be a day of mourning. Speaking at a media briefing at Orlando Stadium‚ Mantashe said the loss of support in the local government elections was being addressed‚ but this… January 6, 2017 The choice of who will be in charge of the ANC has been left in the hands of 5‚240 people‚ the party has confirmed. ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe said the National Executive Committee agreed that the revised number of delegates applied to those who would be allowed to vote… November 14, 2017