Chippa United coach Teboho Moloi admitted that his side “were not in the park but were somewhere else” when they were humbled 1-0 by bottom of the log Ajax Cape Town in a Premiership match played at Bidvest Stadium on Saturday night. The Chilli Boys had come to this match as huge favourites following their midweek 1-0 home victory over Kaizer Chiefs that catapulted them to the second spot on the log. Chippa also finished the match with nine men after defender Zitha Macheke (42nd min) and goalkeeper Daniel Akpeyi (90th min) were shown red cards by referee Olani Kwinda for fouls on Ajax goal scorer Thabo Mosadi. “You could see from the first whistle that we were not there and Ajax wanted it more‚” said Moloi‚ whose league unbeaten run which had gone to 11 matches was broken by Mosadi’s solitary strike in the 27th min. “I did warn the players that if we undermine Ajax we will get a rude awakening and that’s exactly what we got. “After beating Kaizer Chiefs I think it did go into our heads. “The players just didn’t have the passion in this match. I’m not going to make too many excuses. “The players didn’t play to the level we all know that they can. “The honest truth is that we didn’t come to the party‚” said Moloi‚ who was in charge for the first time as the official head coach of Chippa following his on-the-field appointment after victory over Chiefs on Wednesday night. With dependable keeper Akpeyi and Macheke sidelined by suspension‚ Moloi will now have a tough task of making a strong starting eleven against Polokwane City at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in what will be their last league game of the year on Saturday. “I have capable players that can come in and replace the suspended guys. “It’s for us to go home and see what is it that we can do. “There are players that are waiting to be given a chance to play.” Moloi‚ who is not entertaining title ambitions for now‚ said they will be delighted to give their supporters in the Eastern Cape a great Christmas present by winning their last match at home against Polokwane. “The supporters have always been there to give us a push. “It is disappointing that we are left with just one match to please them‚ but we will do our best against Polokwane.” – TimesLIVE Chippa United are looking to keep the foot on the pedal when they take on Ajax Cape Town in an Absa Premiership clash at Bidvest Stadium tonight (8.15pm). Because of the drought in Cape Town, the match will be played in Johannesburg and the Port Elizabeth outfit will enter tonight’s… December 9, 2017 Chippa United are ready for the pressure that comes with being at the top of the Absa Premiership following their superb 1-0 victory over Kaizer Chiefs at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth on Wednesday, coach Teboho Moloi says. The Chilli Boys delivered an outstanding performance to catapult… December 8, 2017 Coach of mighty Mamelodi Sundowns sings praises of Chilli Boys’ defence and mentor Sundowns head coach Pitso Mosimane was full of praise for Chippa United after the teams played to a goalless Absa Premiership draw at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth on Saturday. The former African Champions… November 27, 2017