Ever-changing musician Chris Chameleon is performing tonight with Boo! and the crew at Rock Lily, a little village pub in Cape St Francis which has been rocking this summer season. Described by managing owner Mike Kimmings as a “music bar and kitchen”, the eatery formerly known as Stix, opposite the Cape St Francis Resort, is now a lively venue for music, a meal and good times. Tomorrow night it is the turn of The Sweet Resistance, a Cape Town-based alternative pop rock band. Then, New Year’s Eve on Sunday night will vibe to the sound of Jeffreys Bay folk-rock group Pretty and the Just in #SongandSurfMusicFest2017, AKA the Cape St Francis Year-End Party. If you like Tori Amos, Led Zeppelin, Tool, A Perfect Circle and Eric Clapton, then you may enjoy Pretty and the Just. The music doesn’t stop in the New Year, with reggae group Psalm 87 performing on Tuesday. Then the former Springbok Nude Girls frontman with the magic voice, Arno Carstens, is up on Thursday. Please note his show starts at 9.30pm – most nights the music starts at 8.30pm. On Saturday After Robot will perform. Kimmings says that far from Cape Town’s committed electronic music scene or Joburg’s too-cool-for-school inner-city crowd, the Eastern Cape does, in fact, have its own laidback but immensely talented soundscape. Already he has rustled up big names over the Christmas season, providing a convenient stop for with artists fresh from the Barnyard in Plett before they head through for a gig at the Music Kitchen in Port Elizabeth and this collaboration helps to give visiting artists more concerts to look forward to. Appearances by high-profile artists are now the norm and it is his aim to host shows featuring both local, international and emerging musicians on a consistent line-up. As the refurbished ex-Stix Pub, the venue devotes a large portion of the playlist to live acts and Kimmings says he tries to give artists from nearly all genres a chance to perform at the most south-Eastern pub in South Africa. Thus you can expect to hear everything from acoustic sets to new folk-style jams, jazzy rhythms and foot-stomping rock and roll. It has always been a dream to own his very own “neighbourhood pub” and music venue that brings people together for all kinds of reasons. This intimate 100-seater space opens at noon in the season and also offers a range of tasty but basic fare such as pizzas, burgers – and more. It also has a selection of spirits, good wine and cold beer on tap and craft beers. Rock Lily is open during the summer season from Mondays to Sundays, 12 noon to late. For more information, and prices for the various shows, contact Kimmings at 083-444-3834, (042) 940-0174. The fishing village of Cape St Francis continues to rock this summer with Wendy Oldfield and Robin Auld performing at Rock Lily tonight. The CSF Music Festival features 12 gigs over December with Loki Rothman, Gavin Edwards, Marcato and Black South Easter having performed to date. Tonight it is the… December 20, 2016 Lynne Gadd-Claxton AWARD-WINNING artist Chris Chameleon will bring his unique tour to the Eastern Cape this month. He is described as "innovative, prolific and endlessly creative" and has a large following both at home and abroad. Chameleon will be taking his tour to the Netherlands and Belgium early next year.… December 17, 2012 Brett Adkins EXPECT a jol and to be introduced to no fewer than seven guitars when maestro of the instrument Albert Frost appears in East London next week. Frost – whose name is synonymous with South African blues rock – will be joined by Cape Town drummer Kenan James, with… November 10, 2013