Puerto Rico’s Miguel Cotto goes out a warrior, but not a winner, after a unanimous 12-round decision defeat to Sadam Ali at the weekend – in a world title fight he vowed would be his last. Before adoring fans at Madison Square Garden, Cotto, 37, just did not have enough against his opponent. Ali, 29, seized the World Boxing Organisation (WBO) light-middleweight world title the Puerto Rican won with an undisputed decision over Japan’s Yoshihiro Kamegai in August. After a back-and-forth battle that saw both fighters hurt, Ali got the nod from all three judges by scores of 115-113, 115-113 and 116-112. Ali rocked Cotto with a right in the second, but the veteran held on and gained the upper hand in the middle rounds, doing damage with his left hook and catching Ali with a punishing right to the head in the sixth. “I had him hurt here and there,” Ali said. “But I didn’t want to get over myself and get caught with a shot. He has tremendous power.” Cotto continued to apply pressure in the seventh, but said “something happened” to his left biceps in the round. “I don’t want to make excuses,” Cotto said. “Sadam won the fight.” As the younger fighter’s speed and stamina began to tell, Cotto took some hard shots in the eighth. After a close ninth, Ali was in control in the 10th. “I knew I had to do something, or he would have dug in,” Ali said. “By the 11th round, I thought it was close.” The new WBO champion improved to 26-1, with 14 knockouts. Cotto fell to 41-6 with 33 wins inside the distance. A six-time world champion in four weight divisions, Cotto vowed he would stick by his decision to retire. “It is,” he said, when asked if the bout had been his last. “I want to be happy at home – and enjoy my family.” It was Cotto’s 10th fight at the Manhattan arena. His only prior loss there was to American Austin Trout, in 2012. The rapturous welcome Cotto received upon entering the ring was repeated as he departed in defeat. “Thank you for supporting me at every opportunity,” Cotto told his fans. In his 17-year pro career, he beat a host of fighters, including Zab Judah, Paulie Malignaggi, Shane Mosley, Antonio Margarito and Ricardo Mayorga. He was also beaten once by Margarito, while other defeats came at the hands of Floyd Mayweather, Manny Pacquiao and Saul Alvarez. A MUSLIM funeral for Muhammad Ali yesterday drew thousands of admirers to the boxer’s hometown, where mourners prayed over the body of a man who battled in the ring and sought peace outside it. The jenazah, or funeral in Arabic, was held at a convention space in Freedom Hall, the… June 10, 2016 FOR all that Floyd Mayweather says it is not in his make-up to lose, there is one fight he just cannot seem to win. Mayweather burnished his perfect ring record and reputation as a consummate craftsman with a 12-round unanimous decision over Manny Pacquiao on Saturday only to depart the… May 5, 2015 Public procession and memorial to honour beloved boxing champ THE world is invited to the funeral of Muhammad Ali in his hometown of Louisville in the southern state of Kentucky, where the boxing legend’s life will be celebrated with a public funeral procession and memorial service on Friday, a family… June 6, 2016