The police and prosecutors are blaming each other for a bungle that led to the release of a man accused of killing a Nelson Mandela University student. The investigation into why Zolile Mfeketho, 20, was released from court after his case was struck off the roll, has turned into a blame game with neither the prosecution nor the police owning up to what had happened. Mfeketho has been accused of viciously attacking Asadullah Ajimudin, 19, in 2015. He was released from the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court in August in what has been described as a bungle. Yesterday, police revealed they had been ready to proceed with the trial while the prosecutor maintained witnesses had not been at court that day. According to police, Mfeketho is on the run and several attempts to catch him since his release have failed. Asadullah, originally from Kimberley, was beaten unconscious while sleeping on a couch inside his flatlet in Ben Viljoen Street, Summerstrand. He was in a coma for days after the savage attack with a cricket bat and died on August 8 2015 when his parents made the heartbreaking decision to turn off his life-support machine. Meanwhile, the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) confirmed the case had been struck off the role leading to Mfeketho’s release. The bungle was exposed last month, triggering a probe by police and prosecutors. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said an internal probe had revealed that, from the police’s side, they were ready to proceed with the trial. “I can confirm that witnesses who were requested to be at court, were served with subpoenas and were present at court.” Asked what had transpired, Naidu said: “Due to a bungle at court, the suspect was released. He is not yet arrested and a warrant for his arrest has been issued.” Asked if Mfeketho had been arrested, Naidu said efforts to locate him were ongoing. “The warrant of arrest is active and we are still searching for him,” she said. NPA spokesman Tsepo Ndwalaza said: “At this stage, we are not prepared to comment further except to say that court records reflect the matter was struck off the record due to absence of witnesses.” He said the matter would be re-enrolled. On asking Naidu and Ndwalaza who was at fault and why no action would be taken for a murder accused being released, they both declined to comment. At the time of his arrest, Mfeketho was believed to be part of a gang allegedly headed by Melikhaya Duba. Duba, 32, who is also known as “Blade”, was considered one of Nelson Mandela Bay’s most-wanted suspects until his arrest in August last year on an unrelated matter. The gang continued its alleged crime spree after his arrest. They are believed to have terrorised several NMU students and residents in the suburbs of Walmer, Walmer Heights, Charlo and Lorraine. Duba, believed to be a high-ranking member of a prison gang, is still in jail awaiting trial. Anyone who knows the whereabouts of Mfeketho, can contact Detective Constable Ridwaan Baatjies on 073-130-3018. NMU student’s family fear alleged killer will never be brought to book The anguished family of a Nelson Mandela University student who died after a brutal beating fear the man suspected of killing him will never be brought to book after he was set free following a bungle at court.… November 21, 2017 GEORGE Louca - the man who State prosecutors were using to link Czech fugitive Radovan Krejir to the murder of Teazers strip club kingpin Lolly Jackson - has died. Louca‚ who had lung cancer‚ apparently died late yesterday evening. He had been incarcerated in Pretoria's Kgosi Mampuru II prison. He… May 12, 2015 Kathryn Kimberley A FORMER Umkhonto weSizwe veteran is free to walk the streets after he shot the mother of his children at her workplace before handing himself over to the police. This follows an East London magistrate’s decision to release Mxolisi Leleke on bail – even after he allegedly threatened… February 16, 2012