Port Elizabeth writer Margaret Kollmer has had a poem of hers commissioned as a new Christmas carol in Cape Town. The carol is titled Christmas in Africa and it was commissioned by Cape Town’s newest choir, VOX Cape Town, under the direction of John Woodland. The carol, with words by Kollmer and music by Maike Watson of Cape Town, will premiere at two services of the Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols in Cape Town this month. “A recording of the service will also be broadcast on Cape Town’s Fine Music Radio, with an introduction by well-known broadcaster Rodney Trudgeon,” Kollmer said. The carol may be heard on Christmas Eve at 6pm on Fine Music Radio at 101.3FM in Cape Town or online at fmr.co.za “We specially commissioned this work in order to expand the local choral repertoire,” Woodland said. “This carol sets the scene for a unique and locally relevant celebration of Christmas ‘under a Southern sky’.” Kollmer is a prolific writer who, as far back as 1970, joined up with the late Clem Tholet, of Port Elizabeth, to win the Best Folk Song category in the South African Song Writing Competition. A past winner of The Herald’s Christmas “Very Short Story” competition, she moved to PE with her family in 1968, but later returned to her home town of Benoni. Kollmer moved back to the Bay four years ago and now lives in Fairview. The annual Collegiate Christmas carols presentation has become a regular fixture on many Port Elizabeth calendars as it summons in the start of Advent, and a promise of a blessed festive season. For exactly 100 years, Collegiate pupils aged between 11 and 18 have taken to the stage to present… November 16, 2012 AS CHRISTMAS is just round the corner, get into the holiday spirit with festive season singalongs in Port Elizabeth and on the Garden Route. The Maranatha Children’s Home choir is a special guest at the G&S Society’s annual carols evening tomorrow at 7pm at the Savoy Theatre. Singers from the… December 1, 2015 We are gearing up for the inaugural The Herald Christmas on the Farm at Holmeleigh Farmyard on Saturday December 16. Gates open at 3pm and the festivities will carry on well into the evening until the gates close at 10pm. You can also join our events page here to stay… November 9, 2017