Empathic ocularist steps in to help brutalised victim of serial rapist after disfiguring assault Inspired by her own experience of being born blind in one eye, a Port Elizabeth ocularist changed the life of a young woman who lost her eye during a horrific rape and physical assault five years ago. Chantal Kritzinger earlier this month fitted an ocular prosthesis for a Uitenhage woman whose face was left disfigured after she was brutally attacked in December 2012. Kritzinger had learnt of the woman through a report in The Herald when serial rapist Mzikayise Mkavu was found guilty and sentenced to 228 years behind bars. The woman, who is not being named to protect her identity, was one of at least 17 women raped and attacked by Mkavu, 27. He was sent to jail in October. Kritzinger, who had an artificial eye fitted at the age of three, said she just knew she had to help the woman, who had suffered so much. “When I saw that something like this had happened to her, I knew I had to help. “I phoned and offered to,” Kritzinger said. “I cannot know how she feels but I understand to a certain extent, and that is also why I wanted to help her get her life back to normal again. “It’s a wonderful feeling to be able to help her. I hope I have given her new hope for the future.” The Uitenhage woman said she had been in absolute disbelief when she received Kritzinger’s call. “I cannot explain how I felt when Chantal called me. I couldn’t believe it,” she said. “People used to call me names. They would call me ‘one eye’ and I would laugh even though what they said hurt me.” The woman said her disfigured eye would draw attention and strangers would ask her what had happened. For the young mother, seeing her children – a seven-year-old and one-year-old – react to the change in her was special. She said the children had been very excited to see the change on the day she returned from Kritzinger’s Cape Road practice. “My family is also very happy and my parents told me that I look like the old me, [the way] I used to look before the incident.” The 25-year-old lost an eye during the attack on December 2 2012, which also left her with thick scars across her forehead and the right side of her face. The custom-made artificial eye took three days to make. Creating a prosthetic eye entails taking an impression of the eye socket before proceeding to hand-paint the eye. Kritzinger later had to create small veins for the eye, a process she called “veining”, before colouring the sclera (the white of the eye). “The damage was quite bad,” Kritzinger said. “I could see it was a very aggressive attack.” She said the young woman had been nervous at first. “She was covering her face with her hands, and [when] she looked in the mirror she cried. “She was very happy [afterwards],” Kritzinger said. “You don’t often get people who are so excited with the results and react like that.” Kritzinger said losing sight in one eye meant a person would also lose their depth perception which would affect them when they walked down a flight of stairs. She said the brain also took a while to adjust when the person was playing sports such as tennis. Kritzinger opted to provide the young woman with her top-of-the-range prosthesis, which costs about R20 000. “I didn’t want to fit her with an eye that would not look natural on her,” she said. “I would rather fit her with the best that I can, to get the best [result].” A young mother who was one of at least 17 victims of a “barbaric” serial rapist has described how she is reminded every day of the horror he inflicted on her when she washes her disfigured face and sees the scars in the mirror. The woman was speaking minutes after… October 27, 2017 Emotional day for legal representatives as victims share harrowing tales with court Seasoned attorneys had trouble containing their emotions during pre-sentencing proceedings of a serial rapist in the Port Elizabeth High Court yesterday. Judge Mandela Makaula had to adjourn proceedings briefly for the advocates of both the defence and the… October 25, 2017 In his 14 years as a detective Sergeant Sizwe Gaika rates the recent conviction of a serial rapist as one of the sweetest victories of his career, writes Riaan Marais Clinical investigations coupled with the police’s indispensable DNA profile database were the foundation that led to the sentencing of convicted serial… October 28, 2017