The announcement of the new ANC Top Six has drawn massive reaction on Twitter. Here are some of the interesting views expressed: Fikile Mbalula‚ who was among those calling for Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to succeed President Jacob Zuma wrote: “The branches have spoken‚ case closed. I join thousands congratulating the new leadership.” EFF leader and former member of the ANC Julius Malema tweeted: “Nothing has really changed‚ the core of the corrupt premier league is at the centre of the organisation. The Guptas are still in charge and as a result it will be difficult to recall Zuma. Don’t get easily excited over nothing but I’m happy the Zumas ate a humble pie….”  Former leader of the DA Helen Zille tweeted: “ANC divided 50:50. How will it function?” Mzwanele Manyi‚ who is the head of ANN7‚ wrote: “I accept and congratulate the top 6 as announced. President Cyril Matamela Ramaphosa is our ANC president who I will fully support as my president. Amandla!!!” University of Witwatersrand Vice-Chancellor‚ Adam Habib wrote: “Congratulations to Ramaphosa. It is a split leadership team but maybe that is for the better. For those who worry about Ramaphosa being paralysed‚ remember that he has both Mantashe and Mashatile‚ both of whom are politically astute. He has political support and should use it.” The EFF will vote for the DA in Johannesburg‚ Tshwane‚ Nelson Mandela Bay and Ekurhuleni‚ but it has rejected a formal coalition with the party‚ EFF leader Julius Malema said on Wednesday. This means the DA mayoral candidates can be sworn in but other issues will be decided on an… August 17, 2016 EFF leader Julius Malema on Thursday (01/05/2014) led a stinging attack against several ANC bigwigs for being too scared of President Jacob Zuma to challenge him for wrongdoing. He said former human settlements minister Tokyo Sexwale, former minister in the presidency Trevor Manuel, and Home Affairs Minister Naledi Pandor bowed… May 1, 2014 There are only two people who have previously been deployed to the position of president by the ANC who are still with us. In the space of just two days, they have both sent harsh messages to their own party. First, on Sunday, City Press published an interview with Kgalema… August 3, 2016