Mamelodi Sundowns’ four-match winning streak came to a screeching end as they were narrowly beaten 1-0 by Cape Town City in their lively Absa Premiership encounter in Pretoria last night. The only goal of the match was scored by Nana Akosah-Bempah in the 27th minute as the Citizens continued their dominance over the Brazilians after they beat them home and away last season. This was also City’s second win in succession, following their 1-0 win over AmaZulu at the weekend. Sundowns came into this match on the back of four successive league victories over Baroka FC, Golden Arrows, Maritzburg United and Bloemfontein Celtic where they scored an impressive 10 goals and conceded only three. Though they lost a match at home, the Brazilians remain top of the standings with 28 points from 14 matches, but to their advantage they have a game in hand as most of the teams in the league have already played 15. As a result of the hard-fought victory away from home, City have moved from fifth place to second spot on the log after 15 matches. Although they trail Sundowns by four points, they go to the Christmas break as the second best team in the country. The defeat against City was Sundowns’ first since they were stunned 2-1 by AmaZulu through late goals by veteran strikers Mabhuti Khenyeza and Siyabonga Nomvethe at the Lucas Moripe Stadium in Pretoria in October. When they come back from the break, Sundowns are up against Polokwane City, Ajax Cape Town, Orlando Pirates, Platinum Stars and Kaizer Chiefs and Pitso Mosimane will be hoping to get at least nine points to maintain their advantage at the top. City opened the scoring in the 27th minute when Akosah-Bempah slotted the ball beyond the outstretched hands of Sundowns goalkeeper Denis Onyango after he received a pass from the right flank by Aubrey Ngoma after a quick counter attack. City once again breached the Sundowns defence three minutes before the break when Ngoma supplied a defence spitting pass to unmarked Roland Putsche, whose close range shot was saved by Onyango, who moved out of his line. Sundowns upped the tempo in the second half with the likes of Percy Tau, Themba Zwane, Tiyani Hlompho and Thokozani Sekotlong leading most of their attacks, but they could not find a way past City goalkeeper Sage Stephens. Brazilians give Mosimane anniversary present, move to top of league table Mamelodi Sundowns players gave coach Pitso Mosimane a belated fifth-year anniversary present with an easy 4-0 win over Baroka FC in their Absa Premiership encounter at the Lucas Moripe Stadium in Atteridgeville last night. Mosimane finished five years on… December 6, 2017 Mamelodi side now four points ahead of Bidvest Wits on log NO one understands the importance of embracing responsibility more than Leonardo Castro. Having welcomed the responsibility of being a father to a newborn girl a couple of weeks ago, Castro showed he could deal with the responsibility at work… April 14, 2016 Visitors’ counter-attack strategy pays dividends as they win 3-2 Chippa United failed to break their winless run in the Premier Soccer League when they lost 3-2 to Maritzburg United in a heated affair at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium last night. The Port Elizabeth soccer side have now gone nine… April 26, 2017