Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality assistant manager for housing delivery and unionist David Toyis was arrested for allegedly driving under the influence of alcohol in Uitenhage on Wednesday night. Police spokesman for the Uitenhage and Humansdorp region Sergeant Majola Nkohli confirmed the arrest. “He was arrested at around 8pm and released about an hour later on R1 000 bail. “He will appear in the Uitenhage Magistrate’s Court on June 26,” Nkohli said. He could not provide further details last night. Chief of staff in the mayor’s office Kristoff Adelbert confirmed Toyis was employed as an assistant manager in housing delivery. Asked for comment on his arrest, Adelbert said: “Mr Toyis is a private citizen, currently on annual leave. I do not believe he has been convicted of anything, and thus there is nothing to comment on.” In March last year, Toyis, then Eastern Cape chairman of the South African Municipal Workers Union, was expelled by the union for alleged ill-discipline and sowing division within the union structures. Toyis is also Eastern Cape chairman of the Congress of South African Trade Unions. Man held for six hours after heated argument with cops at J-Bay accident A Port Elizabeth tow-truck driver was arrested and his vehicle impounded for allegedly interfering with a police official at the scene of an accident in Jeffreys Bay. Precision Tow-In driver Rayno “Vlooi” Barnard was arrested on Sunday… December 21, 2016 Police have arrested a fourth suspect believed to be involved in the false report of a truck hijacking on Friday afternoon. This follows the arrest of three suspects on Friday after they reported the incident at the Uitenhage Police Station. He said all four suspects were nabbed by the provincial… September 10, 2017 Eastern Cape chairman of Samwu, David Toyis, has been expelled by the union due to alleged ill-discipline and for allegedly sowing divisions within the union structures. He is also accused by the union of leading activities that are sympathetic to Numsa and former Cosatu general secretary Zwelinzima Vavi. This was… March 31, 2016