President Jacob Zuma’s decision to offer free education to first-year students in 2018 should be welcomed if the country can afford it‚ the chairperson of the National Student Financial Aid Scheme said on Monday. “The decision has to be welcomed‚ assuming that the country can afford to do all of that‚” NSFAS chair Sizwe Nxasana said on Radio 702. On Saturday Zuma announced that free higher education for poor and working-class students would be introduced for first-year students in 2018 and fully phased in over five years. He revised the definition of poor and working-class students to “currently enrolled TVET (technical and vocational education and training) colleges or university students from South African households with a combined annual income of up to R350‚000”. Nxasana said the government would need to work with the private sector and “give them not just funding but also make sure we are producing the kind of skills the country desperately needs to grow our economy”. He said NSFAS would continue to administer financial aid. Thousands of students have been left in the dark about their academic futures as they have yet to receive their national student financial aid scheme grants - nearly four months into the year. The lengthy delays‚ which the DA estimated could affect as many as 200 000 students‚ has seen… March 30, 2017 University ‘relies heavily’ on payments RHODES University has scarce financial reserves and would close within two to three months if students did not pay their fees, vice-chancellor Dr Sizwe Mabizela has warned. “We are heavily reliant on student fees and any attempt on the part of students not to pay… January 26, 2016 President Jacob Zuma's announcement on Saturday that from 2018‚ eligible SA children of the unemployed‚ social grant recipients‚ parents earning below a minimum wage‚ domestic workers‚ farm workers‚ mine workers and entry level civil servants will be able to access public universities and TVET colleges for free‚ is being greeted… December 16, 2017