The high court in Bloemfontein on Friday declared the ANC Free State provincial conference and resolutions taken there as unlawful and void. The ruling does not‚ however‚ prevent delegates from attending the ANC elective conference at the weekend. Two weeks ago the court ordered the province to repeat 29 branch general meetings after it found that the process had not been done according to the party’s constitution. Ace Magashule was re-elected as provincial ANC chairperson in the province after the branch meetings were rerun. But some aggrieved party members said the process was flawed and wanted the results nullified. The court pointed out in its ruling on Friday that “alleged irregularities in several branches have not been sufficiently explained”. KwaZulu-Natal ANC’s provincial executive committee was effectively dissolved by an order of the high court in Pietermaritzburg earlier on Friday. And the North West High Court nullified the Bojanala regional conference of the ANC‚ setting aside 32 branch general meetings in the region. This is a developing story. The ANC Free State provincial conference will seemingly not be able to take place this weekend after the High Court in Bloemfontein ordered that the conference not be held until branch general meetings which have been declared unlawful and irregular by the court are held in a lawful manner. Twenty-nine… November 29, 2017 Ramaphosa could benefit from ruling declaring 2015 conference unlawful While the so-called “ANC rebels” celebrated outside the Pietermaritzburg High Court following a decisive victory against their own party leadership‚ another man‚ several hundred kilometres away‚ would have been quietly smiling to himself. That man was presidential hopeful Cyril Ramaphosa‚ who… September 13, 2017 Senior ANC member Jackson Mthembu has made damning allegations of desperate attempts to buy votes and rig the party’s national election in favour of Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. Mthembu took to Facebook just four days before the ANC elective conference to accuse desperate individuals of trying to fraudulently push for Dlamini-Zuma’s victory.… December 13, 2017