The investigating officer in the case against The President’s Keepers author Jacques Pauw and fellow investigative journalist Pieter-Louis Myburgh has been removed from the investigation. The removal of Colonel Reuben Govender from the case was communicated to the two journalists’ lawyer‚ Willem de Klerk‚ by the KwaZulu-Natal provincial police authorities yesterday. Pauw said he and Myburgh had been in negotiations with Govender for the past two weeks. “He did not want to say if he had a warrant for our arrest‚” Pauw said. Pauw said Govender’s removal came as he and Myburgh were preparing an urgent court application to prevent him from arresting them. Brigadier AW Holby‚ head of the provincial detective services in KwaZulu-Natal‚ confirmed the dockets had been removed from the police station. He said he would handle the investigation himself. Pauw said: “We are just very relieved that [Govender] has been removed from the case.” Journalists Jacques Pauw and Pieter-Louis Myburgh will not be presenting themselves to Durban North police station to make statements relating to material published in Pauw’s best-seller The President’s Keepers or in Myburgh’s news articles published on News24. This is confirmed in a letter that their attorney‚ Willem de Klerk‚ addressed… December 7, 2017 Criminal charges have been opened against author and investigative journalist Jacques Pauw, Gauteng provincial police spokesman Colonel Lungelo Dlamini has confirmed. TimesLIVE understands that the charges were laid at Lyttleton police station in Pretoria against the journalist and author of controversial book The President’s Keepers earlier on Thursday. Sources said the… November 9, 2017 “If you don’t stop writing about Jacob Zuma‚ you are going to be dead.” That is the message investigative journalist and author of The President’s Keepers‚ Jacques Pauw‚ says he received from an anonymous caller on Monday evening. “I received a call from a private number while I was speaking… November 7, 2017