An eight-year-old boy and two teenage girls were found passed out after drinking at the annual Opening of the Season in Port Elizabeth, metro police said on Sunday. The eight-year-old child allegedly passed out after having consumed liquor and was found lying on the grass close to the KFC near Hobie Beach. In another incident, the fatal stabbing on a 17-year-old youth was reported to police. The motive for the stabbing is still not known and is being investigated by Humewood SAPS. Between the different entities (Metro Police, Traffic and Security) of the Safety and Security Directorate, the following are some of the successes reported at the Port Elizabeth beachfront and Wells Estate beach: Safety and Security boss Keith Meyer thanked all role players who worked towards making the event a success. “The fatal stabbing which was reported after the closure of the event is very sad and unfortunate. “ It must be mentioned that there was still a smaller deployment of the Metro Police with Humewood Saps until 6am. “I would like to express my condolences to the family,” Meyer said. ​ Drownings, lost kids, booze cast pall on day RESCUE services, police and traffic officers had their work cut out for them on New Year’s Day, with three people drowning in the Eastern Cape, hundreds of litres of alcohol confiscated and several lost children being found on Port Elizabeth’s packed beaches.… January 4, 2016 It is going to be a dry festive season for beach-goers in Port Elizabeth, with the municipality putting a cap on boozing at the city’s beaches during the holidays. This sobering announcement was made at Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality’s safety and security festive season launch at Wells Estate yesterday. Metro… December 6, 2016 Hot and balmy weather drew hundreds of thousands of Nelson Mandela Bay residents and visitors to Port Elizabeth’s beaches to ring in the New Year on Sunday, the last big day of the season. Described as a resounding success by officials and police, the smooth-running season and almost incident-free New… January 3, 2017