It’s come along way since it was just a place to grab a burger, but you can still do that and enjoy terrific sundowners or a brew with a view at the Something Good Roadhouse in Summerstrand. With its selection of craft and regular draughts on tap, jam jars, ciders and bottled beers, you will find the late afternoon refreshment you need, especially if you’re fresh from Pollok Beach, which is less than a pebble’s throw away. With its bar and expansive dining area and deck, you have plenty of choice when it comes to ordering your drinks and deciding where you’ll catch the view of Algoa Bay with a salty sea breeze guaranteed. If you’re feeling adventurous the Mojo Jam Jar with double vodka, double Mojo, Sprite and club soda is going to hit the spot on a hot day. There are craft quaffers like Valley Light lager, Bowman’s apple cider, Jack Black and Atlantic Weiss among others, along with spirits and a more than satisfying wine list. And if you’re keen on something alcohol-free you’re well catered for with a ginger ale chiller, Hobie Beach ice tea, rock shandy or a Slush Puppy. This venue is also known for its generous holiday-style munchies – a huge selection of meals – so take time to check out the menu. Contact Something Good Marine Drive on (041) 583-6986. Lynne Gadd-Claxton ENJOY the sounds of the waves and the smell of the sea with the mouth-watering temptations of the Something Good Roadhouse menu. The recently renovated and much loved roadhouse reopened at the Pollock Beach parking lot with a fresh and hot vibe earlier this year. The restaurant which… December 10, 2013 ANYONE who has lived in Port Elizabeth long enough will have fond memories of the dinkum roadhouses that existed back in the day. There was the Red Windmill (still there, but not a roadie as such any more), where the neon lighting instructed you to "flick your lights for service".… July 28, 2013 MUSIC from the '70s fills the air. Red, white and blue seating, spotless checkered black and white floor, steel-top tables and Frankie's ginger beer cold in the fridge as the aroma of steaks and hamburgers being prepared is wafting through the air. January 25, 2014