Drowning is a year-round problem but it peaks in summer, so do not let a careless moment ruin your year-end vacation. For South Africans, summertime spells fun, sunshine and outdoor activities involving watersport and swimming. However, it can unfortunately also be a time fraught with tragedy for those who are inexperienced, unable to swim and who may for some or other reason be vulnerable to drowning. David Stanton, head of clinical leadership at Netcare 911, says emergency medical services providers such as Netcare 911 tend to receive more calls related to drowning and water-associated emergency incidents during December and January than any other months. “Our statistics reveal that the greatest percentage of all drowning incidents during the year occur during the peak holiday periods. “This is attributable to the high volumes of tourists, both foreign and local, who flock to the beaches during school holidays and over the festive season,” Stanton said. “Incidents of drowning are also significantly higher in the coastal areas than inland during December and January.”
Looking at data extracted from Netcare 911 for the period 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017, as much as 62% of all drowning incidents occurred during peak summer months.
“When reviewing statistics for the entire year, coastal areas reflect 55% of all drowning incidents.” Netcare 911 gives the following tips for safety at the beach: “In any emergency the most important thing to do is contact the correct emergency number immediately,” Stanton said. “Try and memorise the number for emergency services in your area and keep the number saved on your cell phone and close to your landline telephone. “In many cases, during the panic of a medical emergency, people cannot remember the correct number or cannot find where they have written it down,” Stanton added. What to do in the event of drowning? According to Stanton, having multiple layers of safety such as a certified safety net, a fence with locked gate, a child-minder and a surface alarm around the pool and spa areas at home or around other open bodies of water, can prevent accidents and drowning. “A basic course in first aid and cardio-pulmonary resuscitation can make a dramatic difference in the outcome should the skills be applied timeously,” he said. MEN and children are most at risk of drowning, according to statistics accumulated by the Netcare Medibank database. Netcare Group emergency, trauma, transplant and corporate social investment general manager Mande Toubkin said the hospital group had collected this data since 2011. “Our statistics reveal that the greatest percentage of all… December 14, 2015 EMERGENCY services have again asked the public to be on high alert over the next few weeks as it is peak season for drownings. Netcare 911 general manager Marc van Heerden said 55% of all drownings happened during summer, with 4% of the country's drownings in the Eastern Cape. Van… December 8, 2014 During a hectic festive season, the Eastern Cape Health Department’s new emergency helicopter flew close to 74 hours and covered 8 443km in 24 rescue missions. Department spokesman Siyanda Manana said the emergency calls attended to were for road accidents, drownings, search and rescue operations, and the transfer of patients… January 22, 2015