On New Year’s Eve I love having a relaxed evening at home with friends and family. I try not to go overboard with the food, and keep things light and simple so that the following day I don’t start the New Year with a load of dishes and cleaning up. So, for me it’s always canapes and simple cocktails that don’t need too much work to put together. Here are a few great ideas I love playing around with. They don’t take up too much time preparing and cleaning up the following day is a breeze.ADVERTISINGinRead invented by Teads
Cheers and wishing you a Happy New Year… 3 tablespoons butter, divided
1/4 cup honey
4 large cloves garlic, crushed
2 tablespoon soy sauce
Juice of ½ a lemon
500 grams prawns, deveined and shelled with tail on
Salt and pepper to taste
½ pineapple, cut into cubes (1 cup)
Garnish:
Lemon slices
Fresh chopped parsley Soak the wooden skewers for at least 20 minutes before cooking. Once soaked, arrange cleaned prawns onto skewers, alternating with pineapple pieces. In a small pot over medium heat, melt 2 tablespoons of butter with the honey, garlic and soy sauce together. Stir until combined well and allow to simmer for 3-4 three to four minutes, or until beginning to thicken into a syrup. Take off the heat and stir in lemon juice. Season shrimp with salt and pepper. Using a brush, coat the honey garlic butter sauce on both sides of each prawn skewer. Grill or braai prawns in on a grill brushed with remaining butter. Pour sauce over each side as you braai before turning 2-3 two to three minutes on each side. Transfer to a platter and garnish with chopped parsley and some lemon slices. Serve immediately with any remaining sauce to use for dipping.   2 x avocados
1 tsp lemon juice
220g tubs sour cream and chives dip
½ tsp Sriracha sauce
500g cooked prawns, peeled with tails intact
Garnish:
Lime wedges
Micro herbs In a bowl mash avocado with a fork and sprinkle with some lemon juice to avoid discoloration. Stir in dip.
Drizzle with Sriracha then serve with cooked prawns, lime wedges and sprinkle micro herbs.   A bottle of Prosecco
60ml peach schnapps
4 teaspoons freshly squeezed lemon juice
½ cup pomegranate juice
500ml soda water
6-8 sprigs rosemary
1 fresh pomegranate
½ cup sugar
1 cup water Add 1 cup of water to a small pan with 2-3 two to three sprigs of rosemary, bring to a boil. Add sugar to boiling water and stir until sugar dissolves. Remove from heat, strain rosemary leaves and set to cool. Clean and de-seed pomegranate. Set seeds aside. Pour Prosecco evenly into 4 four cocktail glasses. Divide peach schnapps, rosemary simple syrup, lemon juice, pomegranate juice and soda water to each glass and stir. Add pomegranate seeds to each glass. Allow the pomegranate seeds time to float to the top of the glass and garnish with one sprig of rosemary.    6-8 scoops raspberry sorbet
1 bottle pink sparkling wine
Fresh raspberries for garnish Place scoops of sorbet in large wine glass. Pour sparkling wine over the sorbet.
Top with raspberries.
Allow to melt while you sip or eat with a spoon. Louise Liebenberg TWO rising stars on South Africa's culinary horizon are behind this weekend's three-course, Asian-inspired menu. Sue-Ann Allen and Ilse Fourie first met when both were contestants on MasterChef South Africa in 2012. The two have collaborated closely ever since and, as the Gourmet Sisters, continue to share their… January 12, 2014   I love this time of year when the festive season is almost upon us and we can start planning what we might serve to our loved ones at Christmas. For me the festive season is all about relaxed afternoons and chilled evenings, so I prefer dining al fresco style… November 25, 2017 EARTH Hour is next Saturday and this annual WWF-endorsed campaign, practised by greenies world wide in a bid to reduce electricity consumption, is a good excuse to light a braai fire and a few lanterns and have some like-minded mates around. January 25, 2014