Eastern Province ended a successful 2017 Coca-Cola Khaya Majola week on the best possible note, with a four-wicket victory over Boland in their final match at St Stithians College in Johannesburg yesterday afternoon. It was a case of two in-form teams, who had only lost one game each against the week’s unofficial champs, Gauteng, battling it out for supremacy and in a tight, low-scoring match it was EP who emerged victorious. EP should be extremely happy with their Coke week, with just one loss against the dominant unbeaten hosts, Gauteng, while they managed comfortable wins over KwaZulu-Natal Inland, Namibia, North West and a thumping victory over Free State. Boland batted and got off to a steady start, despite losing the early wicket of Khanya Cotani for six, bowled by Campbell de Wet. Laurentius Smit and Samuel Henderson then consolidated. However, a brilliant bit of fielding from Cole Schoeman broke the 80-run stand with Smit (40) run out. Just a run later, Henderson (33) was trapped in front by Jade de Klerk and Boland were 105/3. Daniel du Plessis (34) was then the second-last man out as Boland crumbled to 166 all out. De Wet (3/27) was the pick of the bowlers along with Tiaan van Vuuren (2/40), while Schoeman, De Klerk and Kenan Smith all claimed a scalp each. For EP, opener David Rushmere (14) fell early, before Peter Jarvis and captain Christopher Benjamin combined for a 76-run. Jarvis (41) and Benjamin (42) then both fell, before EP lost a further three wickets for just one run – leaving them on 131/6, before Smith (19) and Van Vuuren (18) combined for a comfortable 39-run partnership to guide their side home. In the main game, Gauteng finished strongly with a nine-wicket win over Border, ending as the deserved top team over the week having won five games and had just one draw. Eastern Province broke Gauteng’s three-year winning streak on day two of the Coca-Cola Khaya Majola Week in Bloemfontein on Saturday. Gauteng had not lost a game at Coke Week since their main match versus Western Province in Potchefstroom in 2012. But at the University of Free State’s main oval on… December 19, 2016 Alvin Reeves TALENTED righthander Keegan Petersen scored a maiden List A century as Boland completed the double over Eastern Province in their CSA Provincial cricket fixtures at Axxess St George's at the weekend. After slumping to a disappointing four-wicket loss in the three-day match which ended on Saturday, Eastern Province… October 29, 2012 Neale Emslie SOUTH Western Districts (SWD) did enough in their opening provincial cricket fixture to give them hope for the season, but they will be looking to do even better in their second fixture, starting today. Like neighbours Eastern Province, SWD have been on the road for the first two… October 17, 2013