The DA’s federal executive terminated the membership of Nelson Mandela Bay Ward 1 councillor Rashied Adams yesterday. The decision follows a notice to suspend his membership after he failed to pay a compulsory tithe to the party. “A vacancy will now be declared in Ward 1,” DA Eastern Cape chairman Andrew Whitfield said. DA MP James Selfe chairs the federal executive, which is the party’s controlling structure. Adams, 26, the party’s youngest councillor in the Bay, had on Thursday been served with a notice to suspend his membership following an internal disciplinary matter relating to the unpaid money. “He was given 24 hours to provide reasons why his membership should not be terminated,” Whitfield said. “The federal executive did not accept his reasons as sufficient and therefore his membership has officially ceased.” There is no provision for Adams to appeal against the decision. Residents had also complained that Adams was often absent from duty and ignored their messages and calls. “Adams is no longer a member, therefore the investigation on poor performance will not proceed,” Whitfield said. Adams could not be reached for comment yesterday. DA PR councillor Leander Kruger has been roped in to help run the ward. The ward comprises a part of Summerstrand, Seaview, Mount Pleasant, Schoenmakerskop, Lovemore Park, Sardinia Bay, Deer Park, Bushy Park and the southern portion of Kragga Kamma. A Ward 1 by-election will now be held. 
 The DA has given its youngest Nelson Mandela Bay councillor until today to explain why he should not be fired for skipping payments on a compulsory tithe to the party. This comes as Ward 1 councillor Rashied Adams is also under investigation for alleged poor performance, with some residents complaining… December 8, 2017 The DA’s federal legal commission is yet to make a decision on the fate of the party’s youngest councillor in Nelson Mandela Bay, Rashied Adams. Adams, 26, serves ward 1. He was given until yesterday to explain why he should not be fired for skipping payments of a compulsory tithe… December 9, 2017 Nelson Mandela Bay councillor Knight Mali’s DA membership has been terminated, it was announced today. According to a press statement, councillor Mali was under suspension for a number of different and serious charges brought against him.  His disciplinary process was underway, but had been delayed a number of times due to… December 8, 2015