Bail was denied to a police constable charged with the murder of a state witness, when the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court found yesterday he did not prove exceptional circumstances for his release. Walter Francis, 31, of Chatty, did not prove to the court that it would be in the interests of justice to release him, magistrate Sanjani Naidoo found. Francis is charged alongside Wayne Wabanie and Shemeal Gallant for the murder of state witness Alex Ferreira, 28, of Bloemendal, in February. Francis was arrested while on duty at the Humewood police station last month. He is already standing trial in the Port Elizabeth High Court for the murder of Denton Rademeyer, 32, who was gunned down in Bethelsdorp in 2014. It is alleged Francis’s service firearm was used in the murder. Ferreira was a witness to the shooting and was to testify against Francis and his two co-accused, Enzo Kroates, 22, and Clement Kogana, 29, in that matter. The state alleges that Francis had driven Wabanie and Gallant to the place where Ferreira was killed. The case was postponed to February 7, for further investigation. Prosecutor cites shooting death of witness A police officer implicated in the murder of a state witness should be denied bail as the last time he was granted bail the man who could have testified against him ended up dead, prosecutors opposing the bail application of Constable Walter Francis said.… December 15, 2017 A police constable and two others implicated in the murder of a state witness appeared briefly in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court yesterday. Walter Francis, 31, of Bloemendal, who was stationed at the Humewood Police Station at the time of his arrest, told the court he intended to apply for… December 6, 2017 State to oppose bail after Humewood constable arrested in connection with death of witness A Port Elizabeth police constable arrested three years ago for a gang-related killing and who was arrested again – this time for the murder of a state witness – appeared in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court… December 5, 2017