A Port Elizabeth man has been arrested for allegedly kidnapping, beating and raping his ex-girlfriend, hours before her new boyfriend’s father was gunned down. The 28-year-old suspect, who cannot be named until he pleads to the rape charge, had disappeared on Saturday last week, when he allegedly went on a crime spree that police believe could be linked to his 20-year-old girlfriend breaking up with him last month. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge confirmed the suspect had handed himself over in King William’s Town, and had been transported back to Port Elizabeth under police guard on Thursday. Yesterday, the man appeared in the Motherwell Magistrate’s Court, where he was charged with rape, abduction and assault. The man allegedly abducted his ex-girlfriend, whose identity cannot be released, and locked her up in his home, where she was raped and beaten. The woman was taken from her home in Ngwevana Street, Motherwell, at about 8pm last Saturday. “She was then released shortly after midnight and went to the police station,” Beetge said. At 5am on Sunday two men went to a house in the same street and confronted Luyanda Patric Mncayise, 51, who was shot and killed during an altercation. Beetge yesterday confirmed Mncayise was the father of the woman’s new boyfriend. “The suspects allegedly questioned the new boyfriend’s father about the son’s whereabouts. After realising the son was not at home, he [Mncayise] was shot in the back and killed,” Beetge said. As the two men fled from the house, a next-door neighbour, a 66-year-old grandmother, came out to see what was happening, and the men shot at her. Yesterday, the grandmother, whose name is known to Weekend Post but who asked for her identity to be protected, said she was half asleep when she heard a commotion at Mncayise’s shack. The grandmother said she had been concerned because her children stayed out late, and when she heard what sounded like shooting, she decided to investigate. “I walked towards the back door and immediately after I opened it I noticed two men on the other side of the fence. “When they saw me, one of them fired a bullet which came close to my upper body. “It ended up hitting the tile of my washing basin. I am very traumatised by the shooting. I don’t know these boys,” she said. After the attack, the grandmother said she was taken to hospital, where she was treated for shock and discharged on the Sunday. Beetge said following the shooting, the two men fled in a silver VW Polo. Asked if the man arrested for the abduction and rape was believed to be one of the trigger-men, Beetge said that was being investigated. “All I can state about it at this stage is that the murder [is] believed to be linked to the prior rape, abduction and assault case. “Whether this suspect is implicated in the murder still needs to be proven. I can confirm that he is currently a person of interest in the murder case as well. At this stage we are still trying to establish what exactly happened leading up to this series of incidents.” Asked about motive, Beetge said the abduction and assault case appeared to be linked to a jealous feud with the woman. “The investigation is still under way and if it materialises that the suspect was implicated in the murder he will be charged as such.” Beetge said the young woman who had been raped and abducted, and her boyfriend, had left Port Elizabeth as they feared for their lives. The elderly woman said although the shooting had shocked her she would not leave her home. “I will not leave this house. I have done nothing to be fearful. I am unemployed and children depend on my government grant,” she said. Asked if the suspect admitted to the crimes after handing himself over, Beetge said he denied being involved in any of the incidents. Another suspect was on the run. The arrested man would remain in custody until December 8, for him to receive legal representation. Mom tells of her nightmare months of rape, kidnappings A stalker whose alleged reign of terror included kidnapping and raping his ex-girlfriend twice, carving death threats into her car and sending menacing Facebook messages, has been apprehended. The two-month nightmare for the victim – a 26-year-old single mother – finally… July 12, 2016 A man charged with raping his pregnant ex-girlfriend after beating her new boyfriend to death with an iron rod, pushed up his sleeves, primed for a fight, and dared police to try to force him into the dock yesterday. The well-built 30-year-old’s flagrant refusal to appear in the Port Elizabeth… September 12, 2017 Eight rape cases where social media platforms were used to befriend the victims – over a six-month period – are under investigation in Port Elizabeth. According to police, most of the cases are believed to be unrelated, sparking fears that sexual predators have devised new ways to lure victims to… September 16, 2017