The first weekend of the Premier Hockey League did not quite go to plan for Cheslyn Gie, but the Kilimanjaro Addo Elephants coach is confident they will get things back on track in Johannesburg tomorrow. Last year’s finalists went down 4-0 in their opening match against Pro-Grip Drakensberg Dragons. Then, in a repeat of last year’s final, they just fell short against Crossroads Maropeng Cavemen, losing 3-2 on Sunday. To add to Gie’s worries, star national player Jonty Robinson injured his ankle in Sunday’s game and is in a race against time to be fit for this weekend. Gie, of Nelson Mandela University, said: “We always expected it to be a tough start as we received two new marquee players in critical positions. “It took the players a game to get used to each other and we definitely started to gel and play better as a team by the second match. “I believe if we continue to improve, we will be a threat for any team in the coming weekends. “We were able to learn from our mistakes and the improvement showed in our second match against the Cavemen. “The team’s fighting spirit is still as strong as [last year] and this bodes well for the rest of the competition.” Asked where the Elephants needed to improve, Gie said: “We will have to improve our penalty corner defence, ensure we make more connections on attack and convert the opportunities we create. “We missed two tap-ins against the Cavemen while we were leading 2-1. Scoring those opportunities would have eased the pressure and tension.” The team’s first clash this weekend will be against the SA U21 side, playing as iWYZE Golden Gate Gladiators. “We had a great result against them [last year], so we are confident we can get a positive outcome,” Gie said. “We are, however, aware that they have the potential to spring a few surprises, as they pushed the Dragons all the way to a shootout on Sunday.” Gie’s second challenge of the weekend will be against Mapungubwe Mambas on Sunday. “The Mambas have a balanced team and from their performance [last] weekend they showed a lot of firepower. “We will have to do well to counter this,” he said. Of Robinson, the coach said: “His injury seems very bad and we definitely missed him on the park in the fourth quarter. “He will be seeing a radiologist to have a look at the injured ankle. “I am awaiting the results, but Jonty is positive he will be fit enough to play this weekend. “If he can’t, not having his wealth of experience and calmness under pressure would be a huge loss. “[But] we managed well with him off the park when injured, and I expect the players to step up if we don’t have him.” The PHL’s second round gets under way tomorrow at the Randburg astro at 8am. After the opening round, last year’s bottom team, Dragons, are top of the men’s log with Mambas second. Defending women’s champions Blyde River Bunters are top of the women’s log after two wins from their two matches. The U21 Namaqualand Daisies are second and last year’s runners-up, Madikwe Rangers, are fourth. NMMU has a largely fresh squad HAVING lost a number of senior players, a young NMMU-Madibaz team will be out to make a name for themselves in the first round of the Varsity Hockey tournament at the University of Johannesburg, starting today. Although a number of factors have affected the… May 6, 2016 DESPITE losing several key players from last year's lineup, NMMU Madibaz are fired up for hockey's Varsity Cup competition, which kicks off at Wits University in Johannesburg tomorrow. And making the opening round of fixtures even more fascinating is that NMMU, the EP champions, and Rhodes will meet in a… May 2, 2014 REASONABLY satisfied with their opening weekend, NMMU Madibaz will be aiming to up the intensity when the Varsity Cup men's hockey competition continues tomorrow. The Madibaz, lying third on the log, will be playing in Stellenbosch, while Rhodes, who endured a tough opener, picking up two points, will be in… May 9, 2014