Authorities have been criticised for failing gang-torn areas like Helenvale, so Nelson Mandela Bay’s new Shotspotter technology offers hope in dealing with this intractable problem. More than 20 sensors have been up since late October in the R3-million pilot project in this part of the northern areas to pick up when guns are fired. And, in the first 47 days alone, Shotspotter recorded a staggering 823 shots within a 1km radius, which works out on average to between 17 and 18 shots a day. It’s hard to believe these numbers, but they do illustrate the scale of this issue: people who live in Helenvale have to endure a war zone. They and their children are likely to hear gunfire nearly every waking hour, which in turn must take its toll on their mental health and physical safety. It is completely unacceptable that a community should be confronted with this level of violence. Of course it will take more than Shotspotter to stop crime. The technology is only part of the municipality’s focus on the northern areas where mayor Athol Trollip says around 30 different gangs operate. So far it has only translated into 10 arrests and it is too early to speak of any convictions. However, this is not a battle to be won overnight and it is commendable that the technology is active and producing encouraging results. The high number of shots heard, however, does beg the question: where do all the bullets come from? Given the abundance of illegal firearms, we would not be surprised to learn they also are illegally sourced. Safety and security political head John Best sees the project as one way to fight gangsterism in the city and, certainly, in an area where the residents may turn a deaf ear to gunshots, let alone crimes committed with guns, it will be a useful tool. However, a stronger police presence on the ground is also essential and the new police station mooted for the city’s northern areas cannot come quickly enough. R3m pilot project enables swift police response to help fight gang scourge In less than two months, more than 800 shots were recorded in Helenvale by the municipality’s new Shotspotter technology which is in its pilot phase. Launched on October 17, the R3-million pilot project recorded 823 shots fired within… December 5, 2017 KRUGER NATIONAL PARK, South Africa — Rhino poachers in South Africa now risk giving themselves away when they shoot thanks to a high-tech, gunfire-detection system being piloted in the country’s flagship Kruger National Park. The stakes are high, for rhinos are being slain in escalating numbers for their prized horns,… September 5, 2014 IMAGINE a community gripped with such intense fear that they forsake their beds and opt for the hard floor because bullets flying through the walls of their homes are a norm. This is the harsh, everyday reality for residents of Port Elizabeth’s gang-infested Helenvale, who are begging for the South… December 21, 2015