South Africa as one of the leading economies in Africa and being one of the developing countries in the world, we are still faced with numerous social, economic and environmental challenges. As much as the government of South Africa is “trying” to address the country’s education crisis, there are some issues within the education sector which need supervision from it. Within the education sector there bar- riers for children with disabilities. South Africa as a democratic state should know better than to isolate disabled pupils. Education is one of the most important rights of all South Africans. But for some, it is quite the opposite. I have seen cases of disabled pupils being isolated based on their disabilities. Inclusive education in South Africa has been met by numerous challenges – for the government, families and teachers. The government of the day has initially failed to guarantee inclusive education to most disabled pupils. In 2015, the Human Rights Commission released a report which indicated that there were more than 500 000 disabled pupils in South Africa who had no access to education. In 2001, South Africa was one of the 189 countries which signed the adoption of the Millennium Development Goals, aimed at focusing on: South Africa has met, or is striving towards meeting, the goals. South Africa’s education system is marked by school dropouts, violence in schools, an in- creased number of teenage pregnancies and so forth. Of course, some of our education crises or challenges are attributed to the apartheid policies instituted by the government of the National Party. After the fall of the apartheid regime, compulsory education was implemented for all South Africans. In 2001 the Department of Education introduced a white paper. It outlined the government’s new policies for a single and undivided education system for all pupils, including those with disabilities, in the hope that inclusive education would provide a cornerstone of an integrated society. Over and above the aims of the paper, most pupils with disabilities are still going to separate “special” schools. According to the World Health Organisation (2012), disability arises from the interaction between an impairment, in a person’s body function or structure, and the society in which that person lives. For South Africa to successfully implement inclusive education, teachers should undergo adequate training. Inclusive education has been widely embraced as an ideal model of education – in South Africa and internationally. The government of South Africa needs to develop a system where pupils with disabilities are provided with support, along- side their peers. As much as inclusive education is an idea embraced as a model of education in South Africa and abroad, however, it has been noted by scholars such as Juan Bornman that the ideal of practicing inclusive education in South Africa is not what has been transpiring in classrooms. According to Bornman, “a general lack of support and resources, as well as the prevailing negative attitudes toward disability, all contribute to the general bewilderment in South African schools towards inclusion”. Inclusive education in South Africa is a tool of facilitating equal opportunities for all pupils. Professor Mirna Nel, from North West University, noted that “inclusive education in South Africa is still in its infancy, with various challenges yet to be overcome to ensure it can be properly implemented in schools”. For more than 15 years, the South African government has introduced policies and governmental pro- grammes as a roadmap towards primary and secondary education. The potential of inclusive education growth in South Africa is hampered by negative attitudes developed by teachers towards education practice. The development or the implementation  of inclusive education shouldn’t only depend on practical training provided to teachers, but be more theoretically related (teacher education curricula). By focusing on inclusive education in South Africa, practical knowledge should never be disregarded. Since the signing of the development goals in 2001, South Africa has failed to implement some of the key aspects of a national policy, which was adopted in 2001 – providing an inclusive education for all children with disabilities. But the government of the day has not even put into operation fundamental aspects of the policy. Children with disabilities face substantial obstacles to education – and substantially lower participation in school (according to a World Bank report on learning crisis globally). Zamuxolo Nduna is a master’s degree candidate incomparative education at the Teachers College, Zhejiang Normal University, China. NEARLY 500000 disabled children are being denied an education because of the difficulty in finding schools that will accept them. The national campaign Right to Education for Children with Disabilities said the 2010 Household Survey estimated that just more than 470000 disabled children of school-going age were being denied an… September 29, 2014 Education in dire straits Educationists at all levels have been warning about the dumbing down of our pupils. In Cape Town Brian Isaacs and other leading principals have been [allegedly] victimised and dismissed from teaching because of their criticism of the DA-led education system. As a principal, I wrote numerous… December 13, 2017 THE government is violating the constitution by failing thousands of children with disabilities. More than half a million disabled children are not in school. The NGO Human Rights Watch (HRW) lifted the lid on the problem yesterday, releasing its report “Complicit in Exclusion: South Africa’s Failure to Guarantee an Inclusive… August 19, 2015