Last weekend saw your Skinnerbek head off on Saturday to the Mood Africa Social market at the Donkin during the day. There were food and clothing stalls, and we spotted Asanda Mlata from the Athenaeum who was shopping non-stop at the stalls, buying nice garments as if it was Black Friday. They played music from the Vodacom truck as well as music from YouTube, which got quite confusing because there were live artists also and the sound system would play Samthing Soweto and then everyone wondered why they couldn’t see him. Nonetheless it was nice to be outdoors and dance. For booze, they only sold wine and umqomboti, but although some helped themselves to umqomboti, others were too shy to drink it in that kind of a set-up, particularly when they had brought cooler bags with their own booze. Later on in the day I went to Kings Beach where there was a new concept called the Paradise Beach Party. It was a cool concept to watch live music right next to the beach and even thought it was not a large crowd, I really enjoyed this event. Thoko Makamba of Cliq Claque performed solo and she rocked, as always. As usual Zimsto Eroofini was dancing in front of the stage and screaming the loudest. All the performances were on point, including Ikati Esengxoweni. Even so, it was a bit of a risk to see people jamming in front of the ocean – what if someone got drunk and decided to go for a swim and then got into trouble? Drinking, crowds and beaches just don’t go well together. Then this week yours truly headed to Deal Party with a media crowd and Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism to taste the menu at the new Black Impala – also known as the old Man Buy and Braai, not far from Ferguson Road. It is still a tshisa nyama, but pretty upmarket and with a well-stocked bar: if you can imagine it, think more Dopparoz than Lifa and Mafa. Speaking of Dopparoz, though, what happened there, why did it close? That is really a shame so let’s hope the Black Impala takes off and doesn’t meet the same fate. This weekend looks like another busy one on the social calendar so it’s ciao for now from me, let’s meet again next week! German train drivers began their longest strike in 20 years on Wednesday in a bitter labour dispute that will mar travel for millions during 25th anniversary celebrations of the Berlin Wall's fall. The GDL train drivers' union called the strike - the sixth walkout since September - starting with freight… November 5, 2014 Councillors say draft brings nothing new The draft budget for the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality was scoffed at yesterday by ANC councillors, who accused the DA of plagiarising their old fiscal plan. The 2017-2018 draft budget was presented at a joint sitting of the mayoral and budget and treasury committees yesterday.… March 30, 2017 THE draft report by parliament's Nkandla ad hoc committee makes no finding against President Jacob Zuma, and blames only architect Minenhle Makhanya. It finds that "costing escalations inflated the project costs in a corrupt manner". It also opened the door to even more spending, saying the property was still not… November 10, 2014