ANC Women’s League president Bathabile Dlamini has made a veiled accusation that deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa has “the experience” of woman abuse. In an apparent dig aimed at the presidential hopeful‚ Dlamini lashed out at Ramaphosa for his support of President Jacob Zuma’s rape accuser‚ Fezekile Ntsukela Kuzwayo‚ also known as Kwezi. Ramaphosa was speaking during a radio interview earlier in the week. “We want to say‚ comrade Cyril‚ comrade deputy president‚ if you want to speak out about violence against women and children‚ talk about yourself. You must open up… because you said [that] you know how difficult it is for a woman to take a stand on this issue. And you do have the experience‚” she said.  Dlamini – who was speaking at an KZN joint 16 Days of Activism and elective conference send-off rally in Durban on Saturday – said that violence against woman and children was an issue “where we should take a stand and must not be pushed into a corner to support some and not others”. “But comrade deputy president decide to speak…but he spoke about comrade President Jacob Zuma‚” said Dlamini. According to an Eyewitness News reporter at the rally‚ Dlamini said after her address that Ramaphosa had to respond to claims of abuse. “We’re going to call people who are prepared to speak about his history‚” she said in what was an apparent veiled threat. Speaking as a guest on Karima Brown’s Radio 702 show on Thursday night‚ Ramaphosa was asked whether he believed Kwezi’s claims that she was raped by Zuma in 2005. “I know how difficult and painful it is for a woman to garner up the courage to stand up and say: ‘Yes‚ I was raped.’ It must be one of the most difficult decisions that she had to make. So‚ yes‚ I would believe her‚” he said.   Ramaphosa: I believe Khwezi was raped    Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa will not support calls for the removal of embattled Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini‚ saying only President Jacob Zuma is in a position to evaluate a minister’s performance. Ramaphosa was answering a wide range of questions in the National Assembly yesterday‚ including on the social grant… March 10, 2017 And so, finally, Cyril Ramaphosa’s campaign for the ANC presidency is in full swing. In recent weeks, Ramaphosa has moved from one podium to the next, across the country, presenting himself as an alternative presidential candidate ready to take the ANC out of its leadership crisis. Indeed Ramaphosa joined the… May 24, 2017 But Ramaphosa reluctant to confirm he will stand until officially nominated The leadership battle for the ANC’s presidency has begun, with Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa unofficially kicking off his bid to lead the party after its December elective conference yesterday. Sharing the stage with him was, among others, former deputy… April 24, 2017