A body of an unidentified man was found buried under rubbish at the side of the Black Road outside Mdantsane in the Eastern Cape on Monday morning. The gruesome discovery was made by four boys who were on their way to deliver breakfast for Abakhwetha (initiates). After stumbling upon the lifeless body‚ the distressed cup-bearers raced to the R102 and flagged down provincial traffic officers Sipho Flepu and Christopher Plaatjies who were patrolling on the road. Plaatjies said he and his patrol partner Flepu were driving towards Mdantsane when they saw the panic-stricken boys. “We then stopped and they told us that there was a dead body lying on the side of the road in the bushes.” Flepu added that it had appeared that the body was dumped from the back of a bakkie a few metres from where it was found. “We saw the tyre tracks and blood traces showing that the body was dragged before it was covered with rubbish.” At the time of writing this article‚ police were still busy with investigations at the scene and could not immediately give a response to our questions. The boys aged between 11 and 12‚ are from Velwano Location outside NU1. It is not clear whether they would receive counselling following the trauma. Police sent on wild goose chase before young mother confesses IN an incident which shocked Nelson Mandela Bay police officers and medical emergency workers on Monday night, a teenage mother allegedly dumped her dead infant son in a rubbish bin. The 18-year-old mother, who allegedly discarded the body of her… February 17, 2016 A crime-busting campaign called Operation Squeeze led to 41 arrests in the Mdantsane cluster this weekend for crimes ranging from drug dealing and drunken driving to rape and attempted murder. The suspects‚ aged between 20 and 48‚ were nabbed when police swooped down on drug dens and manned road blocks… July 13, 2015 Mother and daughters killed execution-style IN a horrific and puzzling triple murder, a Port Elizabeth mother and her teenage daughters – shot in an execution-style hit – appear to have tried to barricade themselves into their home using a couch. The victims were killed in their Govan Mbeki township home… January 20, 2016