An Eastern Cape religious leader and his traditional counterpart are upset about young men who return from initiation schools and abuse women and children, drink alcohol and disrespect elders. Council of Churches president and Moral Regeneration Movement chairman Bishop Andile Mbete and former Eastern Cape House of Traditional Leaders (ECHTL) chairman Ngangomhlaba Matanzima said the instruction at initiation schools must be restructured so that initiates understood what it meant to be a man. Mbete and Matanzima were speaking at a traditional homecoming ceremony for the sons of senior government official Masiza Mazizi, at Colosa, in Dutywa, and of Cofimvaba businesswoman Colin Sakawulu, at Magwala village. Mbete and Matanzima both attended the Mazizi traditional homecoming on Christmas Day, while the former ECHTL boss delivered a similar message at Magwala village on Saturday. Mbete said the manner of some young men was an insult to the rite. “Even the way they dress. How can you show your underwear in public, have trousers below your buttock? Mbete said. “We send them to initiation school to be men with high morals and understand the essence of being a man and what is properly expected of him by society.” Matanzima and Mbete said real men did not rape or abuse women and children. They said men should be protective of women, be providers for their families and be of high standing in society. Matanzima said: “We have traditional nurses who are not a good example. Some of them are drunkards, do drugs and they themselves know nothing of being a man. “So how do we expect our sons to be if they have been nurtured by such people? “The job of a traditional nurse is not only wound management, but to create a man of good stature, and they are lacking,” he said. More than 40 000 boys in the Eastern Cape start heading to the mountains and bush as the traditional summer initiation season gets going this weekend. Parents were called on to get involved and give maximum support to the ritual, which marks the transition from boyhood to manhood. The message… November 24, 2016 Methodist Church’s Mbete retires after 41 years of service After 41 years of service in the ministry, Methodist Church of Southern Africa Bishop Andile Mbete was honoured at a glitzy farewell banquet held at the Boardwalk International Conference Centre on Saturday night. Mbete, 64, who was arrested in Port Elizabeth in… November 6, 2017 Fourteen Eastern Cape teenagers‚ a traditional surgeon and a nurse had to be re-circumcised after it was found they had not been circumcised properly the first time. This was revealed during a traditional initiation forum meeting in the OR Tambo district held in Lusikisiki on Sunday. It was also announced… June 30, 2015