Paralympian Oscar Pistorius has sustained minor injuries after being involved in a fight in prison‚ the Department of Correctional Services said on Tuesday. “It is alleged that he was involved in an altercation with another inmate over the use of a public phone in the special care unit‚ where both offenders are detained at the Atteridgeville Correctional Centre‚” department spokesman Singabakho Nxumalo said. The incident happened last Wednesday. Pistorius was taken for a medical checkup and found to have only sustained a bruise‚ Nxumalo said. “As standard operating procedure regarding cases of alleged assaults‚ DCS has launched an internal investigation into the matter to establish the facts and to ensure that appropriate action is taken as incidents of assault are not allowed‚” Nxumalo said. He said such occurrences were not rampant in prison. Pistorius is currently serving a 13-year sentence for the murder of his girlfriend‚ Reeva Steenkamp. He shot her dead in the early hours of Valentine’s Day in 2013 in his home. Pistorius fired four times through the locked door of his toilet. He said he had mistaken her for a burglar. – TimesLIVE Oscar Pistorius has been moved to a prison that is more flat and that has recently been renovated to accommodate the needs of disabled prisoners. Pistorius was relocated earlier this month to Atteridgeville Correctional Centre, west of Pretoria. The centre falls under the jurisdiction of the Kgosi Mampuru II prison… November 15, 2016 Paralympian Oscar Pistorius was released from prison under correctional supervision on Monday night, the department of correctional services said. "The handling of the actual placement is an operational matter of the local management, and how they handle it is their prerogative," spokesperson Manelisi Wolela said. "They carry it out in… October 20, 2015 Judge Thokozile Masipa on Thursday (16/10/2014) reproached Oscar Pistorius's lawyer Barry Roux for a sarcastic comment to prosecutor Gerry Nel. When court resumed after lunch, Judge Masipa reproached Roux. "You made an objection against the way Mr Nel was arguing," she said, looking at Roux. "You had every right to do… October 16, 2014