Three weeks after an elderly couple were strangled, beaten and hacked to death with an axe inside their Port Elizabeth home, police have still not located their gardener. The man, 24, described by police as a “person of interest”, has been on the run since the attack. Police refuse to name him or release his picture. The man is believed to have fled the Eastern Cape and gone into hiding. Andre Saaiman, 65, and his wife Lidia, 69, were found dead inside their Scott Street, Summerstrand, home on November 6. Both had been assaulted over the weekend and left for dead. A firearm and money were stolen. Andre had been hacked with an axe and Lydia was strangled. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the gardener was still being sought. Detectives were also waiting for the forensics report. Naidu said the investigating officer had chosen not to publish a photo or name at this stage. This comes just weeks after the media assisted by publishing the ame of Phelokazi Gxoyiya, who was being sought for child abandonment after a six-week-old baby was found dumped in Walmer. He was arrested a day later. Earlier this month, two sisters and a taxi driver were arrested for allegedly robbing a wheelchair- bound couple outside their flat. The arrest came after CCTV images of the three suspects were circulated in the media, prompting someone who recognised them to contact the police. In both cases, members of the public identified the suspects. The elderly Summerstrand couple who were murdered in their home at the weekend died more than 24 hours before their bodies were discovered on Monday morning. This was revealed yesterday after the postmortems of Andre Saaiman, 65, and his wife Lidia, 69. Andre was hacked to death with an axe… November 9, 2017 Detectives are still piecing the puzzle together following the double murder in Summerstrand at the weekend. Yesterday, police revealed that while both had been assaulted, Andre Saaiman, 65, was killed with an axe while his wife Lidia, 69, was strangled. The couple’s bodies were found inside a locked room in… November 8, 2017 Bodies found in locked room of ransacked Summerstrand home A daughter's frantic voice message led to the discovery yesterday of the bodies of her elderly parents, who had been butchered with an axe in their high-security Summerstrand home during a weekend robbery. Andre Saaiman, 65, and his wife Lidia, 69,… November 7, 2017