It’s been around for over a year and is now a firmly established chill destination on the Port Elizabeth beach promenade. And the name says it all. Company Social Brasserie at McArthur Baths in Beach Road is elegance and casual seafront ambiance combined – which should make it among the top choices on your list when it comes to meeting friends – or family – for sundowners. With its sweeping views of Kings Beach and Algoa Bay – whether you’re in the cool, chic and stylish interior or on the deck – it exudes a holiday feel from the moment you settle in. Sample a wide selection of spirits, beers, ciders and wines – but make sure you and your mates are adventurous because this spot lends itself to daring and sweetly decadent company. When it comes to cocktails and shooters make a B-line for the choc-coated cherry shots. They’re like a mini Christmas pudding all by themselves (with a delicious kick) – a bulging amarena cherry with vodka, Kahlua cinnamon, Amarula and cream. You’re also spoilt for choice when it comes to the draught beer station but if you want try something a little different on the craft creation front, the CBC Krystal Weiss is a somewhat light artisan beer with a hint of fruitiness countered by its crisp, European flavour. Company Social Brasserie is at Beach Road, Humewood. Contact: (041)582-2148. It's part industrial, part elegance and part earthiness – all in the same instant. If you’re from out of town and haven’t visited Port Elizabeth since last festive season, you will notice a brand new addition to the face of the bustling beachfront. Company Social Brasserie at McArthur Baths in… December 12, 2016 Breathtaking views and being within walking distance of popular beaches are what make Humewood and Humerail appealing options for people wanting to move to PE. Residents in these areas are lucky enough to practically live on the beach. Humewood resident Eduan James, manager, Ignite Fitness (the newest gym in PE),… March 30, 2017 There’s something to be said for its name – you immediately feel the social vibe as you walk through the door in this elegant yet unpretentious and chilled spot. Company Social Brasserie in Beach Road is one of the freshest additions to the beachfront hospitality scene. It is fresh in… July 16, 2016