Cyril Ramaphosa may have won the race to be leader of the ANC, but he failed to decisively wrest control of the party from President Jacob Zuma. Zuma’s faction retains influence in the ANC’s incoming National Executive Committee (NEC) and was felt in conference debates on divisive policies such as land expropriation and nationalisation. Ramaphosa’s incomplete victory lessens his chances of ousting Zuma from the state presidency before his second term ends in 2019. That could disappoint investors who have bet heavily that Ramaphosa, 65, will be able to turn around the economy. The rand has been volatile since Ramaphosa’s election, as investors continue to assess how much clout he wields. “Because Ramaphosa does not have a strong majority in the NEC and because of the lingering presence of Zuma loyalists, he will not be able to drive his own agenda,” Eurasia Group Africa director Darias Jonker said. The new NEC, announced in the early hours of yesterday, is split roughly 50-50 between the Ramaphosa and Zuma factions. The party’s top six most powerful officials are also split down the middle. Zuma said yesterday there was no winner or loser in the election of leaders. Were Ramaphosa to try to force Zuma from office, he would need to secure the support of the NEC, which includes his main rival in the ANC race, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. Others on the NEC include prominent Zuma lieutenants Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba and Energy Minister David Mahlobo. A senior ANC source said the Ramaphosa camp would try to ensure that the shift to full state ownership of the Reserve Bank would go no further than the resolution adopted at the conference. Land expropriation without compensation is also unlikely to become the norm soon, but the fact that the ANC called for the constitution to be amended as a step in that direction could dent already weak investor confidence. “This kind of rhetoric will now have to inform Ramaphosa’s speeches and perpetuate concerns over property rights at a time when the economy needs exactly the opposite signals,” Anne Fruhauf, an analyst at consultancy Teneo, said Yesterday, the DA criticised the ANC’s call for land expropriation, saying it failed to address the broader issues of property rights for poor South Africans and government mismanagement of existing land programmes. – Additional reporting by Olivia Kumwenda-Mtambo, Reuters BOSSO ke mang (who is the boss)?, asked Cyril Ramaphosa at least three times while on an outreach programme to Kuruman in the Northern Cape last month. This was part of the deputy president’s charm offensive, as he interacted with people hired through the government’s public employment programme – one… May 2, 2016 Risk analysts have stuck out their necks and predicted that Cyril Ramaphosa will likely emerge victorious in the ANC's succession battle‚ but this may not translate to an easy ride for business. Global consultancy Control Risks launched its 2017 Riskmap on Tuesday‚ forecasting the potential impact of political events on… February 28, 2017 President Jacob Zuma and his deputy Cyril Ramaphosa have not yet visited a single township in Gauteng in the run-up to the ANC’s birthday celebrations this weekend. This is unprecedented as top party leaders usually conduct door-to-door visits and hold mini-rallies in the week ahead of the January 8 rally.… January 6, 2017