Cape Town City coach Benni McCarthy reacted with shock and disbelief after seeing PSL referee Christopher Harrison taking selfies with Mamelodi Sundowns players moments after their league match at Loftus Versfeld on Tuesday night. McCarthy was upset when he saw Harrison posing for pictures with some of the Brazilians players and also having a long chat with midfielder Percy Tau outside the Sundowns dressing room. “They [referees] come out of their dressing room smiling‚ look‚” he said‚ pointing a finger at Harrison. “If you think I am joking‚ look at that and tell me if it’s normal. “Do you think that is normal? I am being dead serious‚ do you think that is normal? “That is why Msanzi is mediocre for sure my friend. Haai madoda. “I think I need to go home – in Scotland the cold is calling my name because I can’t put up with this. “I am angry and I am getting more angry. “We had four yellow cards and for what. “Sundowns did not even get one. “I give up. “I think South African football is really not for me‚ it’s killing me.” Respected former PSL and Fifa accredited referee Ace Ncobo said there was nothing in the laws of the game that prohibited players from taking pictures or being friendly with players‚ but there must be a level of decorum to sustain impartiality. “It is about perception. “From a professional point of view‚ he or she put themselves in a difficult position because this will not be the last time he or she is in charge of a match between Sundowns and Cape Town City. “I can give an example with myself some years ago when Barcelona played against Sundowns at Loftus. “I was the referee in that match when Barcelona came to South Africa with most of their international superstars, but I did not take pictures with them. “I needed to sustain the principle of neutrality. “It is an unwritten rule‚ it is a matter of logic and he should not have done what he did.” During their hard-fought victory‚ Harrison issued four yellow cards to City’s Sage Stephens‚ Craig Martin‚ Thabo Nodada and Taariq Fielies and McCarthy said it was unbelievable that Sundowns had not got even one. “This one‚ haaai‚ haaai‚ haaai. “I am getting more grey from fighting with referees than with my kids at home or the players in the team,” he said. “They [referees] must go to training and up their game just as coaches must up their game to stay in their jobs. “It is not a laughing matter.”–TimesLIVE Sleepless nights are a thing of the past – for now – for Chippa United coach Teboho Moloi after his team registered a first 2-1 win over Cape Town City at the Sisa Dukashe Stadium in East London at the weekend. Moloi said he could rest a little easier before… October 24, 2017 MAMELODI Sundowns have scored an impressive 11 goals leading up to the Telkom Knockout final and are in great form right now, but Bernard Parker says Kaizer Chiefs are favourites to lift the trophy because they are cup specialists. Parker says Amakhosi have put the MTN8 defeat to Ajax Cape… December 15, 2015 Downs skipper to take up coaching MAMELODI Sundowns fans should not despair for they have not seen the last of inspirational captain Alje Schut. The Dutchman, who was given the perfect farewell gift when he lifted the Nedbank Cup trophy after a penalty shootout win over Ajax Cape Town on… May 18, 2015