Embattled Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille will know her fate at the beginning of 2018 after the DA agreed to grant her an extension to provide reasons why she should not resign. De Lille has been accused of ignoring misconduct and tender irregularities and some claim she used public funds to renovate her private home. “Her lawyers asked for an extension and we have granted the request on the basis that the charges were serious and the consequences for her were far-reaching. She now has until January 5 [for her response]‚” DA federal chairman‚ James Selfe said on Monday. Last week‚ the DA said a sub-committee established to investigate the issues had found that management and governance-related challenges were prevalent in the Cape Town caucus‚ “negatively impacting the city’s mandate to govern efficiently for the people of Cape Town”. “In the light of these developments‚ it was the view of the federal executive that the Mayor of Cape Town‚ Patricia de Lille‚ needed to be placed on suspension pending the outcome of these ongoing investigations‚” said DA national spokeswoman Phumzile van Damme. The DA's national leadership has asked Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille to give reasons why she should stay in her job. In the meantime‚ she has been suspended from the party following "troubling allegations of maladministration in the City". The federal executive said on Thursday night that it had… December 15, 2017 Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille and Councillor JP Smith have been placed on special leave after a spat broke out between the two. "DA Leader Mmusi Maimane called both Mayor de Lille and Cllr Smith to account for their actions at a meeting held last night‚" the DA said… October 3, 2017 Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille and the DA chief whip in the City of Cape Town‚ Shaun August‚ are under investigation by the DA. They are accused of leaking confidential party documentation to the media as the race to succeed De Lille as Western Cape DA leader turns ugly.… February 22, 2017