British tourists have voted Cape Town the best city in the world for the fifth consecutive year. Unveiling the results of a poll of 90 000 readers in the 2017 Telegraph Travel Awards‚ the UK media organisation said yesterday: “The world’s greatest city? It’s a coastal gem in the shadow of an iconic mountain‚ where fine wine flows and penguins roam. It could only be Cape Town.” The Mother City beat Vancouver and Tokyo to top spot‚ and the Telegraph said: “With all eyes on South Africa in 2018‚ the centenary year of Nelson Mandela’s birth‚ few would bet against it repeating the trick in 12 months’ time.” The accolade coincided with yesterday’s announcement that Joon‚ part of Air France‚ will fly direct from Paris to Cape Town three times a week from April 1 next year. Arrivals in Cape Town from France have grown by 35% in the last year‚ to 74 278. Cape Town Air Access‚ a partnership between, among others, Wesgro‚ the Western Cape government, the City of Cape Town and Airports Company South Africa‚ said the new service would replace Air France flights. Direct "seats" on planes into Cape Town have soared by half a million and generated R3 billion in direct tourism spend for the province. Alan Winde‚ Minister of Economic Opportunities‚ said there had been a significant increase in international arrivals at Cape Town International Airport since the launch of the… December 8, 2016 Applications for the world’s largest individually-timed cycle race opened on Wednesday and it is expected that the Cape Town Cycle Tour will plough R400-million t0 R500-million into the Western Cape economy. Cyclists from all over the country and abroad‚ 35‚000 of them‚ will be permitted to take part in the… August 17, 2016 Former One Direction member Liam Payne and his partner, singer Cheryl Cole, 33, are thinking of tying the knot in Cape Town. That is if a report by the UK’s Mirror is anything to go by. The publication quoted friends who said the Mother City was an option‚ but so… January 6, 2017