A new edition of the popular A Guide to the Garden Route was launched recently and if you are still scouting for Christmas gifts then this revised and updated title could be an ideal option for the nature lover in your family or friendship circle. This is the fifth edition of the guide, which first appeared 20 years ago and is again published by Jacana Media.
It provides detailed but digestible insight into the geology of this globally significant area, its rich and diverse marine life, its plants and insects, and also its land creatures. The Garden Route is, of course, also famous for its incredible concentration of bird species and this section of A Guide to the Garden Route will certainly not disappoint. The illustrations are expertly and exquisitely done, adding greatly to the appeal of the book. Being an avid armchair archeologist, I found the chapter on the human history of the area especially interesting. Ancient sites abound here and the story of human settlement on the Garden Route goes back at least 100000 years.
A large section of the book is also devoted to useful maps and a breakdown of activities that can be done in every section of the Garden Route. “We hope this updated and revised edition will give much pleasure and a better insight into the natural treasures of the Garden Route environment, its diverse and beautiful landscapes, its rich cultural history and its mountains, rivers and coastal magnificence,” local tourism authority Grahame Thomson said. Thomson urges visitors to venture beyond the known routes, listen to the silence and “be amazed by the world we have been given”. To order the book at R280 per copy (plus postage) or less 10% for five copies or more (plus postage) contact Julie at ecovive@mweb.co.za or 082-322-2209, or Grahame on 082-924-8349 or grahame@venturebeyond.co.za Tiso Blackstar employees and their families may not enter.
The winners or a representative must collect the books from the marketing department at Newspaper House, 19 Baakens Street, PE. When ERA Real Estate's Jeffreys Bay agent and PrivateProperty.co.za advertiser Albe van der Westhuyzen first arrived in the Tsitsikamma area from the Western Cape, he spent huge amounts of his time driving around to meet and talk to locals. "In fact, we did a proper survey of the area, because… August 17, 2014 THE Tsitsikamma section of the Garden Route National Park in the southern Cape will undergo a R17-million facelift over the next three years. The funding application submitted in January was approved last month. The money, from the Expanded Public Infrastructure Programme, will be used to upgrade 17 seaside accommodation units… April 15, 2014 A FIELD guide at a top Garden Route game reserve who is possibly linked to a spate of poachings across South Africa is among three alleged rhino poachers arrested on the outskirts of Grahamstown. Police top brass and conservationists hailed the arrests at the weekend as a major breakthrough in… June 21, 2016