Central Port Elizabeth is a beehive of creative industry with several chic little gift shops for pre- or post-Christmas sprees. (Camden has not disappeared: it received so many requests from customers outside Port Elizabeth that it has now moved online, and you can find it at www.aplacetoshop.co.za) Since it opened in June, the Collection Studio has attracted a discerning clientele who enjoy its clean lines and contemporary decor from local artisans. Owner Dicey du Toit is the creative curator of the items sold at the Collection Studio, assisted by Carey Slater in the shop. “The idea is that we have a collection of items – definitely gifting – and also home decor,” Slater said. “We keep almost everything.” The small but airy store stocks pieces by Bay ceramic factory Pret a Pot, as well as vintage-styled lighting by Hoi P’loy. It also has bags, other ceramics, clothing, cushions and kokedama (Japanese hanging moss balls) as well as a newly introduced range of furniture which Du Toit has designed. The Collection Studio is open from 9am to 3.30pm on weekdays. Owner Carryn Gunston offers a gorgeous range of gifts that also include clothes, as well as a few festive season items. Cupboard Love is now in Bain Street, nestled between delicious eateries in Stanley Street, so it’s a nice place to visit if you are lunching on “the strip”. Gunston is generally on hand to explain where each piece comes from and, like the Collection Studio, also strives to boost local artists. Pop in to browse its interesting selection of ceramics, glassware, linens and other textile products, jewellery, wall art, home decor, kitchenware, clothing, furniture and more. Plastic surgeon Dr Konrad Hoekstra and his wife, Cindy, have made sure the entire property has been tastefully restored, giving a graceful new face to the Victorian property that once was a school. Once you’ve enjoyed the sophisticated bistro fare at the restaurant, take a peek at the adjoining Victorian Veranda. There is a corner for baby gifts, as well as for adults. Most of the stock on sale here also is proudly South African, with an accent on promoting elegant and up-market decor items and home accessories. My HeraldLIVE asked a few of the city’s stylistas for advice on where to go for great fashion finds, Christmas gift shopping and family outings. SONJA TIFLOEN BLC Attorneys director Sonja Tifloen knows her fashion and thanks to her interest in this field, BLC was one of the sponsors of… December 13, 2016 Looking for hand-crafted Christmas gifts? Want to support Bay artists? Then you might like to stop in at the WERK premises in Alabaster Street in the Baakens Valley, where Emporium Crafts Space has its little workshop. A collective of Port Elizabeth crafters, led by Bentley van Wyk, Nicole Burger and… December 12, 2017 THE newly opened Loca Vintage Bridal Lounge is a fresh and unique retail outlet on the Stanley Street strip in the centre of Port Elizabeth. If you are planning a wedding traditional or modern, you'll find many a gem in the form of accessories such as jewellery, garters, cuff-links, floral… July 23, 2014