Victims of serial rapist Lonwabo Solontsi‚ 28‚ on Friday testified how the rapes destroyed their relationships‚ caused unwanted pregnancies‚ night terrors‚ depression‚ terrifying flashbacks and fear of people. Solontsi was this week convicted in the Grahamstown High Court of 39 rape charges and a further 26‚ including robbery with aggravating circumstances‚ and housebreaking with intent to rob and rape. Dressed in a brown shirt‚ beige pants and a tweed jacket‚ Solontsi listened intently to his victims’ accounts of their horror rapes and took notes. They are testifying in aggravation of sentence. A 45-year-old woman raped by Solontsi in a derelict house in Willowvale some six years ago says she still lives in fear. It has ruined her relationship with her husband‚ who she said blames her for the rape. Wiping her eyes‚ she said she relives the rape whenever her husband wants to be intimate with her. “When he gets intoxicated‚ he swears at me and reminds me what happened to me. He says he does not love me anymore because I was raped.” Another woman‚ who was twice raped by Solontsi after he broke into her Fort Hare University residence room‚ said she fell pregnant as a result of the horror invasion of her room and her body. She aborted the baby as she said she could “never love the child”. Sobbing‚ she said her boyfriend blamed her for the rape and they had split up as a result. She had become introverted and distrustful of people‚ particularly men. She often relived the rape. When Solontsi’s Legal Aid lawyer Helen McCallum indicated she had no questions for the witnesses‚ Solontsi twice interrupted her. He asked her to ask the former Fort Hare student why she thought her boyfriend blamed her for the rape. “I don’t know‚” was the reply. Senior state Advocate Nickie Turner is prosecuting. Judge Thami Beshe is presiding. The trial continues. Nthabiseng Mabuza, 35, was on her way to work and the only passenger in a public mini-bus taxi when she was raped by the driver. Her alleged attacker was arrested at the scene after she shouted for help to a passerby who flagged down a police patrol car. Although the… September 7, 2017 Neo Bodumela AFTER surviving a brutal 15-hour gang rape in the sand dunes at Kings Beach and being left for dead, entrepreneur Andy Kawa has declared war on what she calls "the veil of silence” around rape and sexual abuse. In the context of the alarming rape statistics which put… August 15, 2012 A 67-year-old man has been arrested by Butterworth police for allegedly raping his nine-year-old stepdaughter. Captain Jackson Manatha‚ of the SA Police Service‚ said: “The suspect was arrested on Tuesday at the Yako Informal Settlement‚ Butterworth. “It is alleged that the rape took place on Monday at about 7.20am at… December 13, 2017