South Africa’s “sushi king” shared some of his fondest memories with TshisaLIVE and explained why his gym card is used more frequently come January. TshisaLIVE: What is your best memory about the festive period? Kenny Kunene: My best memory is when we were still young‚ we would go from house to house in the days leading up to Christmas day and even afterwards – and get fed. As children we would be given food and drinks and we would be full because we had been eating different cakes. Some were not baked so well and our stomachs would be running. (laughs). But that’s what made us who we are today and that’s how we were raised. TL: Is there a family dish or meal that no Christmas is complete without? KK: Every Christmas‚ my family from the Free State come to my house in Sandton. We braai chicken‚ lamb‚ fish and we do a buffet for everyone to enjoy. I don’t eat custard and jelly but on Christmas‚ to this day‚ I’m forced to eat it, because my older sister still prepares it. So‚ for me‚ it completes the day. TL: How fat do you feel the day after Christmas? KK: I gain 3 to 4kg because we don’t really look after our health. It’s just fun‚ fun – and more fun! TL: What’s the most expensive gift you’ve ever given? KK: I always give expensive gifts to people because I’m a giver. TL: If you had to hashtag Christmas what would it be and why? KK: I go anywhere on any other day but Christmas is very special for me. I bond with my family the entire day. So #ChristmasFamilyBonding #ChristmasGetTogether #ChristmasFamily. TL: Complete the sentence: Christmas is … KK: A family day. THERE was something a little off about last night's premiere of the Comedy Central Roast of Kenny Kunene. Kunene can feel relieved after all the attention fell on Khanyi Mbau's genitalia – a-la last year's roast of Steve Hofmeyr when Kuli Roberts endured a barrage of zinging one-liners. But Mbau,… April 29, 2014 Sipho Masombuka and Tshepang Tlhapane CLOSE relatives of former president Nelson Mandela were locked in a second meeting at his home in Qunu late yesterday afternoon. An earlier meeting arranged by his eldest daughter, Makaziwe, was held at Madiba’s rural home in Qunu yesterday morning to discuss "urgent family matters”,… June 26, 2013 Businessman Kenny Kunene says he is lucky to be alive after allegedly being shot at while driving a BMW 125i on Tuesday night in Waverely‚ Johannsburg. "I'm not okay. Fortunately nobody is hurt. I wasn't hurt‚" he said shortly after the incident. Kunene said prior to the shooting he was… September 6, 2017