Germany’s KBA automotive watchdog yesterday announced a recall of Volkswagen’s flagship European sport-utility vehicles (SUV) with 3-litre diesel engines after detecting two illicit emissions control devices in the models. New evidence of Volkswagen’s deployment of defeat devices continues to emerge more than two years after its emissions-test cheating scandal exploded in the United States. The recall of the Touareg model of the latest Euro 6 diesel generation was ordered on Friday and affects 57 600 models globally, about half or 25 800 of which are in Volkswagen’s German home market, the KBA said by e-mail. “Two inadmissable switch-off devices were found upon examination of the VW Touareg 3.0-litre diesel Euro 6 by the Federal Motor Vehicle Authority,” it said. The move follows a recall by German authorities in July of 22 000 Porsche Cayenne SUVs in Europe, the Touareg’s sister model which shares the same modular platform and also uses the 3-litre engine developed by premium VW stablemate Audi . KBA said an emissions-lowering “warming-up strategy” that got activated on the Touareg model when the vehicle was examined in static roller-bed tests carried out under the new European driving cycle (NEFZ) did not, for the most part, go into operation in road testing. Also, KBA said that on Touareg models fitted with costlier selective catalytic reduction (SCR) systems, it detected a strategy that, under certain conditions, illegally restricts the use of AdBlue, a urea-based liquid needed to help filter nitrogen oxides from diesel emissions. – Reuters US auto boss to admit he was aware of scam a year ago GERMAN police swept into Volkswagen’s headquarters yesterday, carrying away files and hard disks in their investigation into a massive pollution cheating scandal engulfing the motor giant. Private apartments were also raided in Volkswagen’s hometown of Wolfsburg and… October 9, 2015 SINCE Volkswagen admitted in September to cheating on diesel emissions tests in the US‚ its sales and grand plans for growth in that market have taken a nosedive. Now‚ executives of the German carmaker are embarking on what could be the ultimate hard sell – trying to win back consumers… January 12, 2016   VOLKSWAGEN’S new boss said yesterday it would take more than a year to fix all its cars fitted with pollution cheating devices‚ as the German car giant scrambled to put its biggest crisis behind it. Matthias Mueller‚ who took over VW’s reins at the height of the scandal‚ said… October 8, 2015