In the wake of a drowning in East London, the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) has urged the public to exercise extreme caution at beaches over the coming week, with a new moon spring tide peaking today. NSRI spokesman Craig Lambinon said NSRI’s duty crew in East London stepped in to assist yesterday at 6.10am, following reports of a drowning at Eastern Beach. “The sea rescue craft Spirit of Rotary EL II and the Lotto Rescue Runner were launched and NSRI rescue swimmers and the SA Police Services, a Police K-9 search and rescue team, a police dive unit and the Buffalo City Fire and Rescue Services responded,” Lambinon said. “Despite an extensive search, no sign of the 25-year-old local man has been found.” Lambinon said it appeared that a group of people were swimming when the man was caught in rip currents and disappeared under the water. “Police K-9 search and rescue and a police dive unit will continue an ongoing search operation, and police have opened an investigation.” Lambinon also warned that the spring tide would increase risks to swimmers, anglers and other beach visitors. “Swim at beaches only where lifeguards are on duty, obey the safety instructions of the lifeguards and only swim within the safe swimming zones marked with red and yellow flags,” Lambinon said. “Children should have responsible adult supervision around water.” Anglers fishing along the shoreline, particularly on the rocks, are at greatest risk during the spring tide from higher than normal incoming waves. “Anglers should not turn their back to the sea and should be vigilant and cautious of the wave action at all times.” A 20-year-old man has gone missing after he allegedly disappeared under water while swimming at Main Beach, Jeffreys Bay in the Eastern Cape, the national sea rescue institute said on Wednesday (17/12/2014). The man, originally from Gauteng, was allegedly caught in rip currents in the area on Tuesday evening, spokesman… December 17, 2014 The body of a girl who went missing in a lagoon at the Seekoei River, in Jeffrey's Bay, was found on Monday (08/12/2014), the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) said. "The body of the 12-year-old, from Humansdorp, was located and recovered by police divers during a scuba dive search," NSRI… December 8, 2014 The National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) experienced a busy weekend with several callouts. NSRI Plettenberg Bay responded to a woman on a jet-ski in difficulty in the Keurboom River Mouth yesterday (December, 6). Two men and a woman on a rubber duck tried to assist her. One man jumped out… December 7, 2015