How not to let festive-season splurging blow the budget despite temptation to splash out more South Africans are not deterred by steeper than-usual prices when it comes to festive season splurging. Despite warnings from financial planning gurus to exercise caution‚ an analysis of the Consumer Price Index over the last festive period by credit bureau Compuscan found that despite steeper-than-usual increases in prices‚ sales in certain industries increase as well. “Road trips and camping are iconic South African holiday activities. “Fuel sales‚ bus ticket sales and camping all enjoy increased revenue during the festive season. “Hand in hand with road trips and camping are food and drink. “Braais‚ parties‚ picnics‚ days at the beach‚ and overall festivities at home and work all drive profits during this time‚” Compuscan said in its analysis. The hardware‚ wood‚ textile and metal industries took a knock during this period because of their annual breaks. Contributing factors to South Africans splashing out include annual bonuses‚ sales that drive shop traffic and spending on non-sale items‚ shifts in spending from work- related goods to holiday-related goods‚ back-toschool preparations in January, and social pressures. “The implication for the credit industry is a possible trend for consumers to take out credit that supports the above spending habits‚ which includes opening retail accounts‚ cellphone accounts‚ etc. “It’s the silly season‚ and consumers are driven by retail advertising and the social pressures the festive season [brings]. “And while spending is good for the economy, the possible festive season-related irresponsible borrowing can affect economic elements such as inflation and cost of living‚” the analysis said. PPS Financial Planning’s Nico Coetzee said it came as no surprise that many South Africans tended to overspend during the festive season‚ failing to remember that there was still a full month of expenses in January. “During this time‚ people are more relaxed and are trying to have fun‚ so they naturally neglect to plan properly and end up spending money carelessly.” Coetzee said sticking to a realistic budget would prevent overspending and added debt. “The stress of sticking to a budget is actually less than the stress of overspending. “By planning, you will find that sticking to a budget isn’t a chore‚ but simply a natural outflow of your planning.” Here are some key tips to help you budget better during the festive season: Make a list of the key expenses you foresee during this period; Find a balance between your goals for the holidays and your finances; Do not deviate from your regular financial plan; Budget for emergencies and unexpected adventures; Open a separate savings account and keep credit and cheque cards “hidden”; and Do not compare your holiday plans with another family’s. Plan your holiday according to what you can afford and do not compete with others. -TimesLIVE The risk of festive season road deaths and injuries is higher this year because of the four-day Christmas weekend followed by the New Year’s long weekend‚ Transport Minister Dipuo Peters said. In a “Festive Season Message” released on Tuesday‚ Peters said the “festive season period is generally characterised by high… December 21, 2016 Food and basic necessities are likely to top South African shoppers purchases this December. Consumer confidence is currently under pressure from a myriad of factors‚ including elevated inflation‚ a recent rise in interest rates‚ weak economic growth pressuring employment and household income‚ and an unsettled domestic political environment‚ says Christie… December 12, 2016 A total of 1755 people perished on South Africa's roads during the festive season‚ an 11% increase from the 2014 figure of 1535 fatalities‚ Transport Minister Dipuo Peters said in Pretoria on Tuesday. The Eastern Cape province accounted for the majority of the fatalities at 17.1%‚ followed by KwaZulu-Natal at… January 12, 2016