ANC presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma told supporters at a party rally in Durban on Saturday that‚ win or lose‚ she’s already a history-maker. At the send-off event ahead of the party’s national conference next weekend‚ Dlamini-Zuma said her nomination for the top ANC post was huge. “The branches of the ANC and the ANC have made history…because‚ for the first time in the life of our organisation‚ we’re going to have a cadre on the ballot paper for the position of president who‚ amongst other things‚ is a woman. That is already history. Whatever happens at Nasrec‚ history is already made‚” she said to applause. But‚ she said‚ for the branches and members who stood by her‚ she didn’t want the story to end. “At Nasrec‚ you must continue to make history‚” she said. Before taking to the podium in Clermont‚ Dlamini-Zuma was greeted by singing of “we are ready for Nkosazana”. During her address‚ she again took aim at the wealth gap between rich and poor South Africans – particularly along racial lines. This‚ she said‚ is what made her now-familiar refrain of ‘radical economic transformation’‚ so important. Without it‚ she said‚ the playing fields could never be levelled. But she was adamant that education would be one of the key elements of any such transformation. “Our education system must not only produce job-seekers‚ but also produce job-creators‚” she said. Dlamini-Zuma’s address was expected to end at about 4pm on Saturday. – TimesLIVE Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a sharp lead yesterday in the contest to become the next head of the ANC, but the complexity of the leadership race means it is far from certain that he will become the next party leader and therefore the likely next president. A majority of… December 6, 2017 President Jacob Zuma is considering appointing his ex-wife, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, to his cabinet when she steps down as chairwoman of the AU Commission in an attempt to ease her path to become his successor, according to government insiders. This comes as a social media campaign in support of Deputy President… January 18, 2017 ANC presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma made an impromptu visit to the grieving family of three-year-old Jade Veldman‚ who was found murdered on Saturday morning. Dlamini-Zuma said she would arrange with Buffalo City Metro mayor Xola Pakati to clear dense bush behind the Veldman family’s home. She started day three of… May 25, 2017