Zimbabwe’s new president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, called for public unity to revive the country’s sickly economy as his new cabinet took office yesterday. His allies defended him against criticism for giving top posts to generals who had helped his rise to power. Mnangagwa has also come under fire for bringing back several faces from the Mugabe era, including Patrick Chinamasa as finance minister. Air Marshal Perrance Shiri, who was handed the sensitive land portfolio, defended his appointment after taking his oath of office. “Who says military people should never be politicians? I’m a Zimbabwean, so I have every right to participate in government,” he said. Shiri is feared and loathed by many Zimbabweans as the then commander of the North Korean-trained 5th Brigade that played a central role in ethnic massacres in Matabeleland in 1983 in which an estimated 20 000 people were killed. After the new ministers took the oath of office at state house, Mnangagwa said: “I have sworn in a new cabinet just to finish the term of the former president, a period of six to seven months. “I believe with my team we will stand up to the challenge. “I want [Zimbabweans] to be united. We must grow our economy.” Mnangagwa was seen as favourite to succeed long-time ruler Robert Mugabe, but then fell out with his boss. Mugabe dismissed him after first lady Grace Mugabe accused him of plotting to topple her husband. He went into exile briefly, returning after the army stepped in and the ruling party expelled Mugabe and a coterie of allies. Mugabe, 93, resigned on November 21 after 37 years in power. The 22-member cabinet includes Major-General Sibusiso Moyo, in charge of foreign affairs. He and Shiri had to give up their army positions. Mugabe’s cabinet had 33 members. The new president also reinstated prosecutor-general Ray Goba. Mnangagwa has issued a threemonth ultimatum for the return of funds siphoned out of the country by individuals and corporates. Assembling a cabinet has not been without mishaps. Mnangawa dropped his initial pick as education minister on Saturday, 24 hours after appointing him, after a public outcry. He claimed to have engaged the opposition MDC party about taking part in an inclusive government. However the MDC has denied any contact. Zimbabwe's former vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa flew home yesterday to take power after the resignation of Robert Mugabe ended 37 years of authoritarian rule. Mnangagwa flew into Harare’s Manyame airbase from South Africa and met key members of the ruling Zanu-PF before heading to State House for a briefing, his aide… November 23, 2017 Three days after his inauguration, Zimbabwe’s President Emmerson Mnangagwa has dissolved the cabinet of his predecessor Robert Mugabe, who resigned after the military took control of the country, a senior government official said yesterday. Mnangagwa was in the process of putting together a new team of cabinet ministers, Misheck Sibanda,… November 28, 2017   Robert Mugabe resigned as Zimbabwe's president on Tuesday, shortly after parliament began an impeachment process to end his nearly four decades of rule. The 93-year old clung on for a week after an army takeover and expulsion from his own ruling ZANU-PF party, which also told him to leave… November 21, 2017