Portia “Pankie” Sizani‚ wife of South Africa’s ambassador to Germany‚ Stone Sizani‚ will have to stay the course in her fraud and money laundering trial after she failed in her high court bid to review the presiding magistrate’s decision not to recuse himself. The 49-year-old former Early Childhood Development (ECD) district coordinator stands accused of defrauding the provincial education department by creating “ghost” teachers and pocketing their salariesbetween 2009 and 2010. Sizani contended that acting regional magistrate in the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court in Port Elizabeth‚ Mputumi Mpofu‚ was biased against her and she applied for him to recuse himself. Mpofu rejected her allegations of bias and refused to recuse himself. Sizani resorted to the Grahamstown High Court to review his decision. It was argued that Sizani had developed the perception of bias from the way in which Mpofu always ruled against her during her trial. But Judge Jeremy Pickering said on Tuesday that none of the alleged manifestations of bias pointed out by Sizani‚ viewed singly or collectively‚ could give rise to a perception of bias on the part of a reasonable or objective person. He dismissed the application. An application for the recusal of the magistrate presiding over the R1.2million fraud case against Portia “Pankie” Sizani was dismissed yesterday. Sizani, 48, is accused of defrauding the Eastern Cape Department of Education by creating “ghost” teachers and pocketing their salaries. In the Port Elizabeth Commercial Crimes Court, magistrate Mputumi… November 25, 2016 Defence cites magistrate’s links to Department of Education In an unexpected twist yesterday, Portia “Pankie” Sizani’s legal team brought an application for the magistrate presiding over her fraud case to recuse himself as he could be perceived to be biased. The Port Elizabeth Commercial Crimes Court heard that magistrate Mputumi… November 22, 2016 Portia Sizani’s “ghosts” will continue to haunt her after a court dismissed an application yesterday for her early discharge due to a weak state case. Magistrate Mputumi Mpofu said while the testimony of these alleged ghost teachers – when looked at individually – might have flaws, collectively they told a… July 31, 2016