At the age of 62‚ Gwede Mantashe is on a hunt for a job. A husband and dad to four children‚ he’s not yet ready for retirement. “When I step out of that #ANCConference I will be unemployed‚ so if you’re looking for an editor‚ I am available‚” the current secretary general of the ruling party said on Twitter on Monday.  Mantashe’s CV could detail his ability to survive stress at work‚ and change management. He announced in October last year that he was planning to quit the tough job of running the party from the ANC’s Johannesburg headquarters‚ Luthuli House. BusinessLIVE reported he delivered his final media briefing on Monday‚ advising the incoming leadership: “When you throw your hands in the air when there problems‚ you [give] yourself a luxury you don’t have. Confront the issue and engage‚ have intense meetings…”. While some will miss him‚ he may not want to take too close a look at the less than polite responses to his job hunt.   Schooled in Cala in the former Transkei‚ Mantashe obtained a B.Comm degree from the University of South Africa (Unisa) in 1997 and completed his B.Comm Honours degree in 2002. He also holds a Masters degree from the University of Witwatersrand (Wits)‚ acquired in 2008. His political career includes leadership roles in the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) and South African Communist Party. In 1995‚ Mantashe became the first trade unionist to be appointed to the Board of Directors of a Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) listed company‚ Samancor. He also served as an executive manager of strategic initiatives at the Development Bank of Southern Africa (DBSA) where he focused on “Joint Initiative for Priority Skills Acquisition (JIPSA)”. Mantashe has maintained contact with his home province and last year gifted his youngest son a heifer. University of Western Cape law student Kamva Mphathisi Mantashe is a would-be farmer. DispatchLIVE reported in July last year that at his umgidi (tradition initiation homecoming)‚ the then 18-year-old was given cattle‚ sheep and goats. He has more than 30 livestock to his name. Mantashe told his son: “Now as a man‚ you have some responsibilities. As a man we must see that in your action and character. You must make sure that you keep your home safe and look after your community as a responsible man in society. You must never bring the family name into disrepute.” Outgoing ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe says “dirty tricks” plagued the run-up to the party’s elective conference‚ currently under way near Soweto. Mantashe likened the ANC leadership race to the succession battle in the Nationalist Party‚ following the assassination of apartheid founder Hendrik Verwoerd. He said “history has a way… December 18, 2017 African National Congress secretary-general Gwede Mantashe on Tuesday (08/23/2016) said a proposal by the ANC Youth League that the party hold an early elective conference was "not a bad idea"‚ and was being discussed. However‚ he said the ANC could not go to an early conference just because of the results… August 23, 2016 NATIONAL Planning Minister Trevor Manuel will not comment on the tongue-lashing he received from ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe.  "Minister Manuel is not going to say anything," his spokesman, Dumisa Jele, said today (March, 09). "Mr Mantashe said what he said. Minster Manuel will not comment." Mantashe rebuked Manuel and… March 9, 2011