The Grahamstown High Court has dismissed with costs a high court bid to nullify the outcome of the African National Congress’s Eastern Cape provincial elective conference. The order‚ by a full bench of the Grahamstown High Court‚ was read out in the high court at 10am on Tuesday. The ruling marks a major victory for newly elected provincial chair Oscar Mabuyane and his provincial executive committee. The unanimous judgment‚ penned by Judge Dawid van Zyl‚ with Judges Thami Beshe and Glenn Goosen agreeing‚ comes just four days before the party’s national elective conference‚ which is due to kick off on Saturday. Several ANC members from the OR Tambo‚ Joe Gqabi and Amathola regions had sought to set aside the election of the PEC‚ including that of Mabuyane. At issue was whether or not the conference was legitimately convened in the first place and whether — even if it was — it could lawfully have been allowed to continue after violence broke out and some 46% of the delegates‚ most of whom supported former chair Phumulo Masualle‚ walked out. The full judgment will be made available later this morning. – DispatchLIVE The Grahamstown High Court will decide on Tuesday next week whether or not to nullify the outcome of the ANC’s Eastern Cape provincial elective conference held in September. That is just four days before the party’s national elective conference starts. At issue is whether or not the provincial conference was… December 5, 2017 ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe says an Eastern Cape faction of the ANC that resorted to court to nullify the outcome of the ANC provincial elective conference (PEC) has agreed instead to submit themselves to the party’s internal processes‚ and so their case before the court should not be allowed to… November 21, 2017 With the ANC’s national elective conference just around the corner‚ the party’s Eastern Cape members who lost their court bid challenging the validity of the provincial conference will have little time to challenge the ruling‚ according to analysts. On Monday the East London High Court struck off the roll an… October 2, 2017