Tweet on Flynn firing complicates president’s position US President Donald Trump denied yesterday having asked then FBI director James Comey to stop investigating ex-national security advisor Michael Flynn, who has since pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about discussions with Russia. Trump also insisted he and his campaign had not colluded with Moscow in last year’s election, and shifted the blame on the Justice Department and his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton. “I never asked Comey to stop investigating Flynn. Just more Fake News covering another Comey lie!” Trump said in a tweet. But his position was complicated by another Twitter post in which he indicated he had fired Flynn because the national security chief had been untruthful, not just to Vice President Mike Pence but to the FBI as well. That comment appeared to indicate Trump was acknowledging he knew at the time of Flynn’s firing in February that he had lied to the bureau’s agents. “If that is true, Mr President, why did you wait so long to fire Flynn?” Representative Adam Schiff of California, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, asked. “Why did you fail to act until his lies were publicly exposed? And why did you pressure Director Comey to ‘let this go’?” White House officials, however, told The New York Times that Trump was only referencing Flynn’s guilty plea for lying to the FBI about his conversations with then Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak over sanctions former president Barack Obama had slapped on Russia for election meddling. And two people briefed on the matter said the Twitter post was in fact written by Trump’s personal lawyer John Dowd, who apologised to the White House for the tactless language. After he was fired himself in May, Comey testified under oath before a Senate panel that, a day after Flynn’s firing, Trump had asked him to drop an investigation into the former national security advisor. A lingering part of the drama has been that after the White House learned through the Justice Department that Flynn had lied to the White House about discussing sanctions with the Russian ambassador, Trump still waited 18 days to fire him. Trump said he had the Russia probe in mind when he fired Comey. The move backfired and led the Justice Department to appoint Robert Mueller as special counsel. Mueller’s focus goes beyond possible collusion with Russia to business dealings and whether Trump himself tried to thwart the investigation. US media reported that senior FBI counterintelligence official Peter Strzok was removed from the investigation over the summer for sending text messages critical of Trump. Trump retweeted a post from conservative commentator Paul Sperry about the news that highlighted the fact that Strzok had also worked on the probe into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private e-mail server while serving as secretary of state. Trump also retweeted another damaging Sperry post critical of Strzok’s boss, FBI deputy director Andrew McCabe. Earlier, Trump renewed focus on the Justice Department’s handling of the Clinton probe. “So General Flynn lies to the FBI and his life is destroyed, while Crooked Hillary Clinton, on that now famous FBI holiday ‘interrogation’ with no swearing in and no recording, lies many times . . . and nothing happens to her? Rigged system, or just a double standard?” he wrote. “Many people in our country are asking what the ‘Justice’ Department is going to do about the fact that totally Crooked Hillary, AFTER receiving a subpoena from the United States Congress, deleted and ‘acid washed’ 33 000 e-mails? No justice!” As he left for a day trip to New York on Saturday, Trump again insisted his team had not plotted with Moscow to sway the election in his favour over Clinton, who won the popular vote but lost the all-important electoral college count. “What has been shown is no collusion. There’s been absolutely no collusion. So we’re very happy,” Trump said. A former FBI chief was tasked Wednesday with leading a beefed-up investigation into whether Donald Trump's team colluded with Russia to tilt the 2016 election in the president's favor. Trump responded by once again denying any links to Moscow, but the appointment of a special counsel with sweeping powers dramatically… May 18, 2017 Talks with Russian diplomat follow swiftly US President Donald Trump defied a storm of criticism yesterday over his firing of FBI director James Comey, inviting Russia’s foreign minister to the White House even as Democrats demanded an independent probe of Moscow’s alleged meddling in the US elections. Trump’s decision to… May 11, 2017 The activities of President Donald Trump's son-in-law and senior aide Jared Kushner have come under Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) scrutiny as part of the probe of Russian interference in last year's presidential election, US media reported Thursday. Although it is unclear whether Kushner is a main focus of the… May 26, 2017