 Winning the 2017 Nobel Prize for literature has propelled Japanese-born Kazuo Ishiguru to more fame than he gained over decades of writing fiction. It also spurred his publisher to re-issue his most recent novel, The Buried Giant, originally released in 2015. Of course, Ishiguru was known to serious readers long before now: he won the Booker Prize for The Remains of the Day. Other critically acclaimed titles include Never Let Me Go. The Buried Giant, however, is the first Ishiguru novel I have read and I absolutely loved it. It is mesmerising as it traces the journey of an elderly couple, Axl and Beatrice, who go on a quest in the dark ages of Britain to visit their long-forgotten son in a far-away village. There is a gentle rapport between Axl and Beatrice, who in addition to the regular aches and pains of old age, also face failing memories due to a sinister “mist” that has descended on the land. It’s fabulous as in fable-like and yet almost hypnotic as the author gently draws you along the road they travel, introducing characters who have stepped out of a fairytale. Their goal is to rediscover their memories and see each other clearly and so it is a love story, of sorts, but also a meditation on aging and forgetting, and on death. Who or what is the buried giant of the title? The underlying narrative suggests it is memories but perhaps memory loss is a balm. After all, might not war break out if different cultural groups remember the evils perpetrated against them? This is a particularly resonant theme for South African readers. The Buried Giant is published by Jonathan Ball and retails for about R215. Jon Day, last year’s Man Booker Prize judge, says this year’s Nobel Literature Prize winner Kazuo Ishiguro thoroughly deserves the accolade Nobel laureate Bob Dylan was a controversial choice last year but no one can deny Kauo Ishiguro thoroughly deserves the 2017 prize: he is a writer of novels of… October 9, 2017 Patrick Modiano of France, whose work focuses on the Nazi occupation and its effect on his country, was awarded the Nobel Prize in literature Thursday (09/10/2014). The Swedish Academy gave the 8 million kronor ($1.1 million) prize to Modiano "for the art of memory with which he has evoked the… October 9, 2014 The race for the Nobel peace prize, to be announced on Friday, has rarely been as open or unpredictable, experts say, with the pope and Edward Snowden tipped as possible winners. Snowden, the former intelligence analyst who revealed the extend of US global eavesdropping, was one of the joint winners… October 8, 2014