The Warriors have reiterated they will not go down without a fight as they pursue a semifinal berth in the Ram Slam T20 Challenge cricket tournament this week. Despite propping up the bottom-of-the-log standings, the Warriors are by no means out of the running, although they will rely on some good fortune to pull them through. Sunday’s nail-biting one-run victory over the Dolphins at St George’s Park has kept them in the mix, but they will need to win their remaining two round-robin fixtures against the Lions in Potchefstroom on Friday and the Cobras at East London’s Buffalo Park on Sunday. But they may also need two of the four teams above them to stop winning going down the final stretch if they are to stand a chance of qualifying. Warriors captain Jon-Jon Smuts said: “The Titans are far ahead, but all the other teams are still in the running. We need to win our last two games and then see what happens.” Smuts was pleased with his team’s performance as reflected in Sunday’s victory, during which Christiaan Jonker made a matchwinning 59, followed by Andrew Birch striking twice early on with the new ball. “It was a slow pitch, but Jonkie read the conditions very well, [Colin] Ackermann as well, and they had a very good partnership. “The bowlers also started well. “In Port Elizabeth, Birchy is our main strike bowler – he enjoys performing in PE.” Jonker, known as “The Finisher” to his teammates, played a more lengthy role on Sunday, having to stabilise the innings before laying into the opposition bowlers. “I like playing here at my home ground St George’s Park – it’s an entertaining crowd – I was just happy we could get a win,” Jonker said after the game. “We had good communication in the dugout and the coach [Malibongwe Maketa] told me that when I go in I should just play my normal game and express myself. “From the game before, I saw that it was a slow pitch. “I enjoyed batting on the slower pitch – it actually suited me.” Jonker started his assault by taking 15 off Imran Tahir in the 12th over and then 18 off Andile Phehlukwayo in the 13th. “It was all thanks to Imran’s noball free hit which I luckily dispatched and that got me going. “We know that the side pitches [at St George’s Park] are slower than normal. So 150 is always a competitive score. “We concentrated on standing still and hitting the ball straight. “We lost a few wickets, but it was my day and we managed to pull it through.” Remaining Warriors fixtures: Friday: 6pm, Lions v Warriors (Potch) Sunday: 2.30pm, Warriors v Cobras (EL) RAM Slam action will light up the East London night sky this evening as the Chevrolet Warriors entertain the Chevrolet Knights in a crucial T20 match at Buffalo Park. The match is important to both teams as they head into the business end of the competition. The Warriors know anything… November 21, 2014 One win in five is not how the Warriors’ blueprint would have read heading into the Ram Slam T20 Challenge a few weeks back. Some tough opposition and disappointing batting here and there have contributed to the fact that they find themselves at the foot of the log standings halfway… November 29, 2017 There will be no waiting around for the dust to settle as the Warriors rush headlong into a crammed stretch of six Ram Slam T20 Challenge matches in 12 days, starting in Durban tonight. Having lost their opening two fixtures of the campaign, last season’s finalists will be desperate for… November 22, 2017