Right opposite the beach in Summerstrand, convenient for those looking to squeeze in a bit of shopping and family activities in one day, the Boardwalk can provide all-round fun for the whole family. So, while some prefer a movie at the Boardwalk’s NuMetro cinema, others would rather shop for beach wear and more at shops including Billabong and Element Collective – and a few might just be feeling lucky enough to gamble at the casino. This week the Boardwalk Hotel is also offering its traditional high tea every day – normally it is only available on a Saturday afternoon. Visitors can enjoy sweet and savoury treats, along with a range of teas and other refreshments, in the piano lounge daily from 3 to 4pm in the hotel lobby, ending on Christmas Eve on Sunday. The tea costs R150 (and R125 for Sun MVG cardholders). Then there are the mini humans who like to run around. The children’s play area on the lawns in front of the Boardwalk Hotel is open from 9am until 6pm daily for kids aged 3-11 at a cost of R20 until January 6. Kids can enjoy activities such as jumping castles and balloon crafting. Kids can also spend a half or full day at the fully supervised Kids Corner crèche near the amphitheatre, where a range of fun activities including mini ten pin bowling, musical chairs and colouring competitions is the order of the day. The cost is R80 (inclusive of lunch and a drink) for a full day and R50 (inclusive of juice and a packet of chips) for a half day. And for a festive feel, kiddies get to take photos with Santa and enjoy jolly fun with Popsie The Clown from noon until 4pm at the Craft Centre tomorrow and on Saturday. Buskers and mascots will also run around the retail centre from 1 until 4pm on both days. For the more mature family members, the Boardwalk has music shows and live entertainment in the evenings, as follows: When looking for the ideal place to retire, the Port Elizabeth seaside suburb of Summerstrand is an excellent choice. With its beautiful ocean views and sandy beaches, Summerstrand is a retiree’s dream, though people of all ages proudly call it home. The suburb is home to many retirement centres, such… April 29, 2017 TANUJA Gangabishun is a familiar face at The Boardwalk in Port Elizabeth because it has been her professional home for the past four years, which is her second stint at the hotel and casino complex. Gangabishun, who is full of humour, grew up in Port Shepstone, KwaZulu-Natal, and is best… March 27, 2013 Find everything you need for perfect wedding THE Boardwalk Hotel – the venue for The Herald Boardwalk Bridal Fair later this month – is a Port Elizabeth fine dining hotspot and visitors to our wedding expo on May 28 and 29 can expect an enticing array of edible delights not… May 11, 2016