Flamenco de Algoa presents Celebracion Flamenca tomorrow and on Sunday at the Savoy Theatre in Perridgevale. The Spanish-themed performance will feature flamenco dancers and international flamenco guitarist Demitrio Fernandez. Fernandez, who is originally from Galicia in Spain, lives in Durban where he is a senior lecturer and head of the department of music at the University of KwaZuluNatal. Flamenco De Algoa dance school based in Port Elizabeth was founded by instructor Clive Bain (also known as Carlos), who is one of the world’s top flamenco teachers. As director of the show, Bain is assisted by Margarita Moran, a professional flamenco dancer who has worked for top dance companies in Spain. The organisers’ aim is to provide an authentic Spanish evening filled with beautiful flamenco dancers, a brilliant guitarist and vibrant music. The show starts at 7pm tomorrow and 3.30pm on Sunday. Tickets are R100 a person, on sale at the door and at Geek World SA in Walmer. Inquiries: Contact Tersia on 081-471-5425 or e-mail kleinskoolNPO @gmail.com Flamenco de Algoa will bring to life the passion and fire of this Spanish dance art with a production called Celebracion Flamenca this Sunday at the Savoy Theatre in Perridgevale. Directed by Flamenco de Algoa dance school founder Clive Bain, who goes by the professional name Carlos, the production will feature… November 24, 2016 A MAGICAL flamenco show or, as the Spaniards would say, "Magico Flamenco", will be held in Port Elizabeth on Sunday and Monday. Magico Flamenco is produced by Flamenco de Algoa and directed by Clive Bain, who goes by the stage name of Carlos. He will be assisted by Margarita Moran.… December 4, 2014 Flamenco stars set for anniversary show A GROUP of dancers from Port Elizabeth are heading to the City of Gold to celebrate the 20th anniversary of Alianza Flamenca, a Spanish non-profit dance organisation with strong links to the Bay. The dancers from here include choreographer and dance teacher Clive Bain,… March 8, 2016