The Constitutional Court has confirmed that a law governing matrimonial property in customary marriages‚ which discriminates against certain categories of women‚ is unconstitutional. Section 7(1) of the Recognition of Customary Marriages Act (RCMA) of 1998 provides that wives who entered into customary marriages before the Act was passed do not have marital property rights. In this case, Musenwa Netshituka‚ who died in 2008‚ had entered into polygamous customary marriages with three women and two civil marriages with two other women. One of the civil marriages‚ to Martha Netshituka‚ was terminated by divorce in 1984, while another civil marriage to Munyadziwa Netshituka in 1997 was annulled by the Supreme Court of Appeal in 2011. Munyadziwa claims she later concluded a customary marriage with Netshituka. Netshituka left a will in terms of which Munyadziwa, ‚ whom the will referred to as a wife married in community of property‚ was named executor of the estate. Munyadziwa‚ the other wives and all the Netshituka children were to receive certain benefits from Netshituka’s half share of the joint estate. The Constitutional Court said the reference to a joint estate stemmed from a belief that Netshituka’s marriage to Munyadziwa was in community of property. The major asset in Netshituka’s estate was immovable property on which a business, the Why Not Shopping Centre, stands. Munyadziwa is the registered owner of an undivided half share of this property. Two biological children‚ whose mothers had entered into the polygamous marriage‚ launched the constitutional challenge. They argued that due to the application of Section 7(1) of the RCMA‚ their mothers were excluded from ownership of the estate amassed by Netshituka. The high court in Thohoyandou agreed with them last year‚ and so did the Constitutional Court yesterday. In a unanimous judgment written by Judge Mbuyiseli Madlanga‚ the court said the effect of section 7(1) was that it perpetuated inequality between husbands and wives in the case of marriages entered into before the 1998 Act. Madlanga gave parliament 24 months to remedy the defect in the legislation. In the meantime, he said, husbands and wives whose polygamous customary marriages were concluded before the act must share equally in the right of ownership to family property. – TimesLIVE CIVIL and customary law came under the spotlight in the Mthatha High Court yesterday as Winnie MadikizelaMandela launched her claim to former president Nelson Mandela’s Qunu house. The property was bequeathed to the Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela Family Trust by Mandela for the benefit of the Mandela family – including his… March 1, 2016 Kathryn Kimberley MANDLA Mandela, the grandson of former president Nelson Mandela, has fertility issues and is unlikely to produce an heir to the abaThembu nation, his estranged wife claimed in an affidavit yesterday. The shocking claims were made just a day after the Mvezo Traditional Council chief revealed he was… August 15, 2012 KING Goodwill Zwelithini may not like it, but first wives have the right to veto a man’s decision to take on another spouse. Last week, the monarch, while addressing the House of Traditional Leaders, referred to the Recognition Of Customary Marriages Act as a “brutal law designed against our heritage”.… May 5, 2015