President Jacob Zuma proposed former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe as a potential finance minister to replace Pravin Gordhan‚ ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte has said. Duarte said around the time of Gordhan’s axing Zuma had put his name forward to his ANC colleagues in the top six of the party. “Obviously he brought the name of Brian Molefe into the discussion and we disagreed. We said no‚ we don’t think that would be a useful change … of course there were very strong words used‚” Duarte said in an interview with the SABC on Tuesday night. “He did say: Here’s a young man who’s put Eskom straight‚ why can’t he assist us elsewhere?” Gordhan was fired as finance minister in March during a controversial cabinet reshuffle that rattled investors. After his departure from Eskom‚ Molefe was appointed as an ANC MP‚ fuelling speculation that he was one step closer to replacing Gordhan. Molefe was seen as a Zuma ally‚ who was meant to advance the business interests of the president’s friends. Duarte disputed reports that Zuma had not consulted fellow ANC leaders about the March reshuffle‚ which was followed by another cabinet shakeup in October. “I think when that particular situation (reshuffle) did happen‚ the question that was asked was: Did the president consult you? And I said‚ yes‚ he did‚” Duarte said. “In fact‚ for nine months before Pravin Gordhan was asked to resign by the president‚ he told us‚ all of us‚ that he was going to ask him to resign. “What I object to is the fact that my colleagues forgot about that‚ forgot that we’d been told almost repeatedly.” When the interviewer pointed out that Gordhan himself had apparently not been informed of his impending removal from his position‚ Duarte replied: “I can’t take responsibility for that. What I take responsibility for is what I heard: that Pravin Gordhan had taken to instructing the president in cabinet‚ had taken to being arrogant with other ministers in the cabinet. That is what we were told by the president‚ that he was no longer able to communicate with him and that it had reached a point of no return.” At the time of the March reshuffle‚ deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa and ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe came out publicly and said that Zuma had not properly sought their counsel before he implemented the changes. They said the president had cited a dubious intelligence report as his reason for getting rid of Gordhan. Duarte said: “I think at some point in our lives all these truths will be told … the fact of the matter is that the top six doesn’t always agree with everything the president says.” SACP, ANC leaders oppose president’s bid to replace Gordhan with Molefe President Jacob Zuma’s plan to boot out Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, based on what is claimed to be a damning intelligence report, and replace him with former Eskom chief executive Brian Molefe, has been rejected by the SACP and… March 30, 2017 The outrageous return of Brian Molefe to Eskom confirms a few things about the state of our nation and our leaders. First, the Jacob Zuma faction of the ANC is so hell-bent on looting South Africa that any semblance of shame is out the window. The wanton looting that occurred… May 15, 2017 The Democratic Alliance says that former Eskom chief executive Brian Molefe is unfit to be a Member of Parliament‚ referring to him as an “ethically compromised Zupta buddy with corruption clouds hanging over his head”. Parliament confirmed on Friday that Molefe had been nominated to "fill a vacancy on the… February 18, 2017