About 145 babies were delivered on Christmas Day in Gauteng public healthcare facilities‚ the health department said in a statement. The majority of babies were born at Tembisa Hospital (17)‚ Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital (16)‚ Rahima Moosa Mother and Child (14)‚ Mamelodi Hospital (8) and Hillbrow Community Healthcare Centre (6). So far there are only two sets of twins‚ who were born at Tembisa Hospital and Dr George Mukhari Academic Hospitals and First time father Takalani Molaudzi thanked Kalafong Hospital staff for delivering his baby girl‚ Favour Molaudzi. New mother Mpho echoed her partner’s sentiments. Gauteng MEC for Health Dr Gwen Ramokgopa visit Kalafong Hospital and Ladium Community Healthcare centre in Tshwane. “For the whole province‚ between midnight and 7am‚ 88 babies were born‚ 14 of those were born at community healthcare centres that‚ is the clinics‚” she said. “We just want to thank all our health professionals who are on duty.” She advised new mothers about the importance of breast feeding for at least six months‚ as this builds bonds‚ ensures the babies receive nutrition and are resilient to diseases. She also thanked the fathers there to support their partners. MORE than 200 Christmas babies were welcomed into the world on Friday in the Eastern Cape. The figure, provided by Eastern Cape Department of Health spokesman Siyanda Manana, is for births in provincial hospitals only. Of the 217 babies born on December 25, girls predominated with 116 representing the “team… December 28, 2015 IN an unthinkable nightmare, two Gauteng mothers have learnt that their three-year-old daughters were switched at birth. Even worse, one wants her biological daughter back, while the other wants to keep the child she has loved as her own for almost four years. The high court in Pretoria on Monday… May 28, 2014 Boy weighing 5.58kg the biggest born at PE hospital Lying happily between twins born on the same day as him, Endinako Manana positively dwarfs the little tots – not surprising when he was born weighing a hefty 5.58kg. Making history when he was born at the weekend, Manana is the… November 22, 2017