A Port Elizabeth man has been shot in the neck – but police are trying to figure out whether it was one of their bullets that hit him following a house raid and police chase. The wounded man was discovered in another street half an hour after a suspect had fled the scene of the stolen firearm bust in New Brighton. This comes after police recovered four stolen handguns, one shotgun and R5 assault rifle ammunition in various operations across the city since Friday. The shooting happened during a raid on a house in Noxolo Street, New Brighton, at about 5pm on Monday. Yesterday, police were still trying to establish whose bullet had struck the man. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said the incident followed a raid on a house after a tip-off of guns being stashed inside. “The police went to the house and as they were about to enter, a man came out and pointed a firearm at them. “The suspect then ran away after the police fired two warning shots. [He] escaped between the houses.” About 30 minutes after the incident, police were informed of a wounded man in Sumunye Street. “We do not know if the incidents are linked, but the wounded man is a person of interest in the case.” Beetge said four people, linked to possession of stolen firearms, had been arrested. “This forms part of the festive season operations where we are attempting to get illegal guns off the streets. “No guns would reduce the level of crime,” he said. Motherwell Cluster commander Major-General Dawie Rabie urged the community to assist the police to get illegal firearms off the streets. Two men were arrested following a shoot-out with police in New Brighton an hour after a hijacking in Kwazakhele on Monday night. A third suspect is on the run. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said at least 10 shots were exchanged after police spotted the hijacked car in New Brighton.… November 7, 2017 Bullets fail to stop heroic policeman shot in clash with robbery suspects A BRAVE police detective showed his mettle when he continued to pursue a gang of suspected robbers – despite being shot twice in the leg. His valiant efforts contributed to the arrest of two suspects, one of whom… February 18, 2016 Two alleged hijackers were arrested and a third suspect is on the run after a shootout with police in New Brighton on Monday night. The shootout came only an hour after police spotted a vehicle that had been hijacked in Kwazakhele. Fewer than 10 shots were exchanged. Police spokesman Captain… November 8, 2017