The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) will only communicate on the criminal case against President Jacob Zuma after a team led by the KwaZulu-Natal director of public prosecutions‚ Moipone Noko‚ has made its recommendation. Last Thursday was the deadline for Zuma and the DA to make representations‚ if any‚ on whether the case against Zuma should continue. This follows the courts setting aside the 2009 decision by then acting national director of public prosecutions (NDPP) Mokotedi Mpshe to discontinue the prosecution of Zuma on corruption charges. Following the Supreme Court of Appeal judgment dismissing the NPA’s appeal in October‚ the NPA gave Zuma until November 30 to make representations. It said Zuma’s further representations should relate only to issues not previously considered when Mpshe made his decision in 2009. The DA was also given until November 30 to make any representations. The DA is the party that went to court to review Mpshe’s decision. The team led by Noko would consider all representations‚ and then make a recommendation to NDPP Shaun Abrahams. NPA spokesman Luvuyo Mfaku yesterday refused to shed light on whether Zuma had made representations to the prosecutors. “We said as a team‚ we will not divulge whether we have received representations.” On Saturday‚ DA leader Mmusi Maimane said that following the deadline‚ the NPA must announce the date of Zuma’s first court appearance. He wanted Abrahams to schedule the matter before Christmas. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) has given President Jacob Zuma until November 30 to make further representations on whether or not he should be prosecuted. But Zuma’s further representations should relate only to issues not previously considered when then acting national director of public prosecutions (NDPP) Mokotedi Mpshe made his… October 21, 2017 It has been eight years since Mokotedi Mpshe took a decision to discontinue the criminal prosecution of President Jacob Zuma relating to alleged crimes of corruption. In coming to his decision in 2009‚ the former acting national director of public prosecutions relied on intercepted conversations between his predecessor Bulelani Ngcuka… October 13, 2017 President Jacob Zuma has made an 11th-hour concession that the decision to withdraw the more than 700 corruption charges against him was irrational. The decision was taken in 2009 by the then National Prosecutions Authority (NPA) head Mokotedi Mpshe. Kemp J Kemp for Zuma made the concession in the Supreme… September 14, 2017