The Springboks’ Rugby Championship home fixtures for next year were confirmed on Monday with matches scheduled for Pretoria, Durban and Port Elizabeth in the 22nd edition of the southern hemisphere championship. The Wallabies will appear in Port Elizabeth when they take on the Springboks at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on September 29, while the All Blacks return to Pretoria for the first time in more than a decade when then they play at Loftus Versfeld on  October 6. Meanwhile the Pumas will have happy memories for their return trip to Kings Park in Durban. On their last visit in 2015 they recorded their first victory over South Africa (37-25). Tickets for the matches at Loftus Versfeld and Kings Park will be available through the Blue Bulls and Sharks respectively. Details of ticket sales for the match at the Nelson Mandela Bay stadium will be announced in the new year. The schedule is: August 18:  Springboks v Argentina (Durban) August 25:  Argentina v Springboks (TBA) September 8:  Australia v Springboks (Brisbane) September 15:  New Zealand v Springboks (Wellington) September 29: Springboks v Australia (Port Elizabeth) October 6:  Springboks v New Zealand  (Pretoria)   Eastern Province rugby has been given a big shot in the arm with the news that Port Elizabeth will host a test between the Springboks and Argentina on August 19. The match will be the opening game in the Rugby Championship and it will be the fifth time the Nelson Mandela… May 23, 2017 DASHING Sharks centre Tim Whitehead could be coming home to Nelson Mandela Bay to join Stade Francais hooker Michael van Vuuren in a red and black-hooped EP Kings jersey this season. The 25-year-old Whitehead fits the profile of the type of players the Kings are head-hunting and he could be… March 13, 2014 EASTERN Province Rugby boss Cheeky Watson says his union is pushing very hard to host a Rugby Championship test match between the Springboks and Argentina at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on August 8 next year. "Apart from bidding to host the Argentina test, we are also in the process of… December 2, 2014