When she was just 24, Wandisa Gogela was gang-raped by five men who told her they were correcting her because she liked girls. For Gogela, an Institute of Race Relations report that showed the Eastern Cape was the most homophobic province in the country came as little surprise. The report, released earlier this week, stated that 48% of people in the province knew of someone who had been murdered due to their sexuality. The gang rape was not the only time Gogela – who bravely agreed to her identity being revealed in hopes of shining a light on the abuse of gay people – was attacked for her sexual preference. The rape, in Zwide in 2007, was followed by a vulgar attack in a nightclub last year. Gogela says a man grabbed her crotch while she was with her girlfriend at a local hangout spot not too far from her home. She said the man, who was arrested for the incident, said: “One day is one day and I’ll show you how good it feels to get it from a man.” Gogela said she was not at all surprised by the report as the rape was an attack carried out because of whom she chose to date. “I didn’t know the men who raped me, but during the entire ordeal, they kept saying they were correcting me because I liked girls and they would show me,” Gogela said. The report, titled We’re Queer and we’re here!, was written by Gerbrandt van Heerden. Van Heerden said: “The overall majority of the Eastern Cape is not only rural but it suffers from a lack of infrastructure. The province suffers from lack of education and the overall majority of its people have one of the poorest levels of quality of life recorded. “A lack of education in terms of the LGBT [lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender] community, as well as poor living conditions, could feed into the ignorance that surrounds the LGBT community.” The report stated that while 800 000 South Africans identified as members of the LGBT community, the number might be significantly higher as most black LGBT people lived in the closet, afraid to let people know. The report said 21% of black people had been threatened with physical violence, while 20% of coloured respondents confirmed they too had been threatened. For white respondents, the figure stood at 18%, while 17% of Indian and Asian respondents reported being threatened. LGBT activist David Hessey said he was not sure about the province being the most homophobic in the country, but acknowledged there were problems especially within the black and coloured communities. Hessey said as a member of the LGBT community he hated being labelled as gay, as, first and foremost, he was a person. “The main problem of homophobia is because the gays don’t like mixing too much. Some gays are totally against being in a heterosexual environment,” Hessey said. Van Heerden’s report also said Indians and Asians had the highest number of LGBT people who concealed the fact that they were gay. The author said there was a cultural and religious stigma attached to being gay that stopped Indians and Asians from stepping out of the closet. “We suspect in the Asian and Indian community there could be a religious aspect as to why people are more inclined to keep it a secret,” he said. Activist Thembisa Jonas, from Sibanye in Uitenhage, said some people in the LGBT community were not accepted in their own homes, which often meant the same treatment was meted out in public. “Homophobia begins at home and when outsiders see how you’re being treated in your own home, they go with it,” she said. Jonas said the Eastern Cape was a deeply traditional province with old-fashioned views. “We need to educate them more about the LGBT community and what it means. “Black people tend to be more aggressive towards homosexuals, which is not right, and people need to educate themselves and change their mindset,” she said. The activist added that the government had failed and was not doing enough in raising awareness regarding the LGBT community. Both residents and businesses hit in East Cape, crime stats show Armed robberies and burglaries are on the rise in the Eastern Cape, while murder, hijacking and sexual offences are on the decline. This was revealed yesterday as Police Minister Fikile Mbalula, addressing parliament’s portfolio committee on police, released annual… October 25, 2017 THE Eastern Cape has been labelled the worst province in the country in which to live, based on factors ranging from it having the highest unemployment rate to having the lowest incomes. The findings have been published in the South African Institute of Race Relations' latest Fast Facts report. "The… December 30, 2014 A bruising encounter over several months is expected in the race to succeed Patricia de Lille as DA leader in its powerhouse province of the Western Cape after her shock resignation at the weekend. Deputy provincial leader Bonginkosi Madikizela will act as leader until February 25 when the DA provincial council… January 31, 2017