President Jacob Zuma’s promise to accelerate the rollout of free education to students from working class and poor households is worrying the South African Communist Party because there is no clarity about how it will be funded. In its end-of-year statement‚ the party commended the government for speeding up the progressive rollout of free education. The number of South Africans with college and university qualifications robustly increased following an increase in funding for the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) from R2.4-billion in 2008 to R15-billion this year and extended coverage to previously unfunded college students‚ the SACP said. “On December 16 government announced a plan to broaden the scope of eligibility from an old to a new threshold, further benefiting the working class,” national spokesman Alex Mohubetswane Mashilo said. “However‚ the issue of where the money will come from is of great importance and must be clarified as a matter urgency. “We hope that this will not amount to increasing VAT or recklessly using workers’ money either in the Unemployment Insurance Fund or the Public Investment Corporation. Doing so will be tantamount to robbing the poor.” Free higher education for poor and working class students will be introduced for first-year students in 2018 and fully phased in over five years‚ President Jacob Zuma announced on Saturday. Students from households with a combined annual income of R350‚000 or less will have their TVET college or university studies… December 16, 2017 President Jacob Zuma’s decision to offer free education to first-year students in 2018 should be welcomed if the country can afford it‚ the chairperson of the National Student Financial Aid Scheme said on Monday. “The decision has to be welcomed‚ assuming that the country can afford to do all of… December 18, 2017 ‘Increased subsidy will also ease financial pressures on varsities’ President Jacob Zuma’s announcement that tertiary education would be free for poor and working-class firstyear students from next year has been welcomed by Nelson Mandela University. NMU spokeswoman Zandile Mbabela said the announcement and subsequent commitments made would go a long… December 19, 2017