South Africa’s national anthem, Enoch Sontonga’s hymn Nkosi Sikelel’ iAfrika (God Bless Africa), has been rated the best in the world. “Too many national anthems suffer from dreary harmonies and dull platitudes‚” The Economist wrote‚ as it published a poll. Russia was the second favourite‚ with The Economist stating: “Could anything be more stirring than this performance belted out by the Red Army Choir?” Uruguay – “for sheer exuberance‚ it is hard to beat” – was third. The Economist wrote: “What makes a national anthem? “A rousing tune to quicken the pulse‚ some pathos to moisten the eyes and that inexplicable something to make it stand out from all the rest. “A surprising number are hemmed in by the musical traditions of Europe in the 19th century‚ when nationalism spread across the world – Uruguay’s is the best of the bunch. “Too many‚ including God Save the Queen‚ suffer from dreary harmonies and platitudes about being victorious and glorious. The home nations of the United Kingdom have all the best tunes – listen to Wales’s Land of our Fathers. “Good anthems‚ such as Ukraine’s and Israel’s‚ contain a tinge of sadness‚ because nationalism is really about longing‚ suffering and sacrifice. “The best‚ like South Africa’s, Nkosi Sikelel’ iAfrika‚ create their own world entirely. “Taken from a protest hymn‚ the lyrics combine Afrikaans‚ English‚ Xhosa‚ Zulu and Sesotho in an act of musical healing for the Rainbow Nation.” Brazil‚ Ukraine‚ Japan, Israel‚ Nepal‚ Germany and the US rounded out the top 10. Sontonga‚ writer and composer‚ was born in Uitenhage. He attended the Lovedale Institution, where he studied to become a teacher before joining a Methodist mission school in Nancefield‚ near Johannesburg. He wrote Nkosi Sikelel’ iAfrika as a prayer at the age of 24‚ eight years before his death‚ according to SA History Online. Samuel Mqhayi is credited with writing seven more verses later for the song‚ according to the blog SouthAfrica.com. Sontonga and his choir toured Johannesburg and KwaZulu-Natal and sang the song wherever they performed‚ the sources say. Seven years after his death in April 1905‚ the ANC launched his hymn into prominence as an anthem of black struggle. In 1994‚ Nkosi Sikelel’ iAfrika was amalgamated with Die Stem‚ or Call of South Africa‚ written in 1918 by Afrikaans poet CJ Langenhoven. THERE’S nothing quite like Twitter for the ultimate in skinner.And over the weekend, with the Bokke and the Kiwis and a high profile armpit ...  er, rather armchair critic in town, the Twitterati ruled.Doing his thing at Balizza after the rugby, 5FM’s Gareth Cliff tweeted: “Ok PE ... Let’s make… August 24, 2011 ZUMA VISITS THE BAY PRESIDENT Jacob Zuma showed true leadership in dismissing the regional executive committee in the Nelson Mandela Bay region.The situation had become untenable with regional leaders consumed by "sins of incumbency". They became a law unto themselves and their victims were our communities who suffered because of… December 19, 2014 International businesswoman and former model Reeva Foreman has joined the debate on the national anthem‚ accusing the Economic Freedom Fighters party (EFF) of “totally missing the plot” with its call for the Afrikaans verse to be dropped. In a letter to the media‚ Foreman charged that the EFF was suggesting… September 27, 2015