Looking for hand-crafted Christmas gifts? Want to support Bay artists? Then you might like to stop in at the WERK premises in Alabaster Street in the Baakens Valley, where Emporium Crafts Space has its little workshop. A collective of Port Elizabeth crafters, led by Bentley van Wyk, Nicole Burger and Melisa du Preez, is using this space to present their hand-crafted wares. “We source our materials from various industries and we endorse them as 360 Fair Craft Partners,” said the group. “Craft Designers at Alfern SA create unique saleable pieces which are then given to HeartVelt community artisans to produce, to establish them as micro-producers of our collections.” Ceramic artist Van Wyk leads Potters Hands Ceramics and has his wheel at the Emporium, from where he also gives throwing workshops. He also stocks the space with his tactile domestic ware and other items. Burger, like Van Wyk, wants to see crafters get the financial recognition they deserve, and works closely with community leaders to ensure particularly marginalised or at-risk men and women be taught the art of creative macramé, sewing and paper crafting. Under her label Zesst, Burger has a range of funky aprons on sale, for example, and gives sewing lessons to beginners. Burger’s sister, Du Preez, creates leather bags and accessories under her label Urban Vintage, focusing on upcycling and using even tiny scraps in innovative creations. All three want to further a legacy of craftsmanship and try to only stock sustainable or collaborative products. The other members of the collective include: Ironwood Works: Linkha Minne who makes decorative and functional wood art pieces; Just for Kickz: Kevin Ah Shene’s clothing; Just Love Bags: Allinda Maas who makes fabric and vinyl handbags with loving attention to detail; and Dikeni Arts and Crafts: Ashwin Ramhith who has a range of large and small wood-turned products. In addition, the neighbouring WERK workshop retails its T-shirts, wood and iron homeware items from the Emporium, and WERK studio artist Billie McNaughton provides ceramic pendants and art platters. Port Elizabeth’s fifth annual Art Meander starts on Friday, October 27 at Art on Target and wend its colourful way through the Baakens Valley and out to Schoenmakerskop over three days. Its founder, Cindy Oberholzer, who describes herself as an amateur artist, hopes this inside view of the creative process… October 23, 2017 Octayvia Nance A NELSON Mandela Metropolitan University master's student has been given a platform to connect the arts with the community as the new arts intern at ArtEC in Central. Bantu Mtshiselwa, 28, who works at ArtEC twice a week as well as on his master's degree research in ceramic… June 24, 2013 Cindy Preller A CREATIVE fusion of fashion and craft met this week at the Athenaeum Little Theatre in Port Elizabeth where top designers and local crafters are involved in a skills transfer experience. Top fashion designers Craig Jacobs, Terrence Bray, Anna-Mari Claasen and Ronel Jordaan flew in from across the… July 25, 2013