An ambulance driver who had picked up a pregnant woman was attacked at 2.30am in Missionvale yesterday. Nelson Mandela Bay Emergency Medical Services boss Brenhan Metune said the ambulance driver had been rushed to hospital with a suspected concussion after she was hit on the head by a brick. Eastern Cape department of health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said the ambulance had been called out to a Missionvale shop which was a common pick-up point for emergency vehicles. As the call was for a pregnant woman needing help, an obstetrics ambulance had been sent. “After loading the patient, the female ambulance driver was stopped by a man informing her that his father had been stabbed. “The next moment, two other men ran from the bush and charged at the ambulance,” Kupelo said. “The driver accelerated and managed to get away from the two men. The men then hurled a brick at her through the window on the driver’s side. “She sustained a head injury and her partner got glass in his eyes.” Kupelo said the driver had received treatment for her injuries at the Greenacres Hospital. Metune said a case would be opened as soon as the ambulance driver was able to make a statement. He said the patient at the back of the ambulance had not been injured in the attack. “She was taken to Dora Nginza Hospital,” he said. An ambulance driver was treated for a head injury and another crew member had glass removed from his eyes after they were attacked by three men in Missionvale early this morning. Department of Health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said the men got the attention of the driver, who was there on… December 15, 2017 Overcome by anger after he saw an ambulance without a siren allegedly overtake four vehicles on a dangerous blind rise, an optometrist became embroiled in a bizarre chase from Uitenhage to Port Elizabeth’s Livingstone Hospital. Graaff-Reinet optometrist Johan Minnaar was so determined to ensure that authorities were notified of what… February 17, 2017 Ambulances need police escorts after emergency personnel lured into traps AMBULANCE services to New Brighton in Port Elizabeth will be severely curtailed after the crews of two ambulances were lured into traps by armed robbers early yesterday and robbed at gunpoint of their cellphones and wallets. Furious Eastern Cape Health… October 1, 2015