Residents in and around Mthatha in the Eastern Cape are still reeling with shock over the gruesome murders of three people in separate incidents over the weekend. In a first incident‚ a taxi driver was shot nine times and died while parking outside a block of flats at Lujecweni village on Saturday. Police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Mzukisi Fatyela said the 34-year-old taxi driver was attached to the Border Alliance Taxi Association. Fatyela said the incident took place at 8.30pm. The suspect is still at large. Fatyela said nine spent cartridges were found next to the body of the deceased. The incident happened hours before a 24-year-old rape suspect from Slovo Park was killed by an angry mob at Mandela Park for allegedly attempting to rape a 50-year-old woman. Fatyela said the man was chased down by an angry mob after he had allegedly invaded the home of the woman at 1.30am on Sunday. Fatyela urged anyone with information that may lead to an arrest to contact the police. The suspect is still at large. In an equally shocking incident‚ a 52-year-old woman was raped‚ killed and her house torched by an unknown suspect. The incident took place at Qhokoma village in Ngqeleni on Sunday evening. A 40-year-old Eastern Cape man shot dead his three young children before turning the gun on himself on Saturday morning. The incident‚ which left the community of Cawa village near Mqanduli reeling from shock‚ happened in the early hours of the morning. Police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Mzukisi Fatyela said all the… October 28, 2017 A Mthatha taxi boss and his wife were shot and killed at their home on Wednesday night. The killing of the pair‚ who were both members of the Uncedo Service Taxi Association in Mthatha‚ shocked those in the public transport industry‚ who said the killings came at a time there… March 31, 2016 Barely three days after rival taxi associations called a truce on violence in the OR Tambo region, three taxi drivers were gunned down in separate attacks within an hour on Friday night. At least three passengers were also injured and had to be taken to hospital. Mthatha police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel… August 15, 2016