Jason Rohde allegedly grabbed his wife Susan by the neck and pulled her “out of his way”. The incident happened when she was trying to prevent him from going to an “after party”. Rohde’s advocate‚ Graham van der Spuy‚ said this is one of many incidents that could have led to the injuries discovered in the autopsy. The multimillionaire stands accused of murdering his wife‚ the mother of his three children‚ last year. His legal team insists that Susan committed suicide‚ but the state claims she was strangled and her suicide staged. The couple were attending a work conference on the night of her death‚ and she allegedly refused to let Rohde go to a hotel room where his mistress and other guests were having drinks. In court on Monday‚ Van der Spuy asked state pathologist Dr Deidre Abrahams about a “variety of incidences or occurrences which could have caused injuries to the deceased”. Van der Spuy mentioned that Susan fell onto a small garden wall‚ and that Rohde and his friend Mark Thompson had attempted to resuscitate her. Abrahams insisted that the injuries occurred prior to her death. The trial continues. The back of his hand connected with her face‚ his elbow connected with her nose and he grabbed her neck with his right hand and pushed and pulled her out of the way. This is what caused some of the injuries  sustained by Susan Rohde before she died last year. Her… November 21, 2017 One of the state's key witnesses in the Jason Rohde murder trial has fallen ill. As a result‚ proceedings came to a standstill at the Cape Town High Court on Tuesday‚ where Dr Akmal Coetzee-Khan has been subjected to cross examination by Rohde's defence. Rohde‚ the director of Geffen International… October 24, 2017 Susan Rohde would have been semi-conscious‚ writhing with pain and coughing up blood in the time leading up to her eventual death by manual strangulation. This was the evidence by Dr Deidré Abrahams‚ the second state pathologist‚ who testified in the murder trial of wealthy businessman Jason Rohde. Abrahams‚ who… November 23, 2017