The third leg of Nelson Mandela Bay’s Pools and Beats party brings a special performance by Cape Town house music duo Twins On Decks on Friday. The party, which started in 2015 with one of the country’s biggest hip hop artists AKA the first headliner, returned earlier this month when Shekinah was the main act. Held at the popular McArthur Baths in Beach Road, Humewood, the party promises a fun-packed day of music for over-18s. PE Entertainment company founder Brent Williams said he felt that there were not enough pool parties in the city for the public to enjoy, so he decided to start Pools and Beats. Unlike the usual club scene where invited national artists usually perform, the Pools and Beats party brings refreshing outdoor fun. With comfort and enjoyment a priority, Brent advises party-goers to dress as comfortably as possible in flat shoes. The party has transitioned from presenting various national acts in one event per year as in 2015 to presenting three. This season’s Pools and Beats is therefore divided into three parties: one headlined by Shekhinah on December 1, Twins on Decks on Friday and Distruction Boyz on February 3. This week’s supporting acts are local talents which include Pelco, Kumnandi, House Natives, Bay FM’s Chad Smith and more. Madibaz Radio host Phiwe “Romeo” Phekana is emcee. Tickets for Friday’s party, running from 5pm until 2am, cost R100 at Computicket. There will be a cash bar. TOMORROW'S public holiday will mark an all-star experience at the Port Elizabeth beachfront. PE Entertainment will be hosting what many are dubbing "the event of the season" at Havana Blu at Kings Beach. Featuring award-winning hiphop artists Da LES and AKA, Johannesburg DJ duo Twins on Decks, and Ultimix sensation… December 15, 2014 SOCIAL CLASH and McArthur Pools are hosting what they hope to be one of Port Elizabeth’s biggest annual pool parties this Saturday. Event planner and DJ Renaldo Gouws said: “It has been a long time coming. We have finally received the green light to host one of the most epic pool… February 26, 2015 IF you are in a party mood this weekend, join the party animals at The Reunion party at the McArthur pools in Humewood tomorrow. The event, in its third year, celebrates the life of all partygoers who have frequented Brookes Pavilion at some point. Entertaining the thousands of people expected… December 19, 2014