A 25-year-old Port Elizabeth man was arrested in Kwazakhele early yesterday after police found dagga and stolen cigarettes hidden in his house. The suspect, whom police will only name after he has been charged in court, was arrested at about 1am following a tip-off. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said the information was that the man was in possession of items related to the recent robbery of a spaza shop. “Flying Squad members followed up on the information, which led them to a house in Salamntu Street, Kwazakhele,” Beetge said. “The suspect was arrested inside the house and was found in possession of more than 120 rolled dagga cigarettes and packets of dagga. “He also had 32 cartons of cigarettes stashed inside the house. “It is suspected that the cigarettes might have been part of the loot of recent robberies at spaza shops in the Motherwell cluster area.” Beetge said detectives still had to hold an identity parade to establish any links to a specific incident. “The investigation is ongoing and we suspect he could also be involved with other robberies.” The man is due to appear in the New Brighton Magistrate’s Court today. An elderly Port Elizabeth woman has been arrested for dealing in dagga. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said the 66-year-old suspect was arrested at her Kwazakhele home at 7pm on Friday. “In her house 41 bompies of dagga was found, and in an outside building, eight large bags with a… November 18, 2017 More than two dozen suspected thugs – some on the Bay’s most wanted list – were arrested in a series of operations over two days. This was revealed yesterday following the operations in which 25 suspects were arrested. More than 50 detectives from various police stations in the Motherwell cluster were… January 11, 2017 A 28-year-old man was arrested at his house in Lange Street, Uitenhage, at 2pm this afternoon during a police raid. Police spokeswoman Lt Gerda Swart said that 20 small dagga plants, worth about R2000, as well as two containers with dagga buds inside were found in the house. “Officials from… February 1, 2016