Steinhoff International promoted its chief operating officer‚ Danie van der Merwe‚ to acting chief executive yesterday. It also appointed a deputy chief executive‚ Alexandre Nodale‚ who will double in the new role while remaining chief executive of subsidiary Conforama. Louis du Preez‚ described as an experienced‚ qualified attorney specialising in corporate and commercial matters‚ was appointed commercial director. The three new appointments‚ together with chief financial officer Ben la Grange‚ will make up Steinhoff’s management board. Yesterday’s management reshuffle coincided with the furniture retailer’s meeting with banks‚ which was postponed from December 11 after it indefinitely delayed releasing its results following the discovery of accounting irregularities. “The group confirms that the global team is focused on managing their businesses‚ and the group’s 130 000 employees through this time,” the group said. Steinhoff’s share price continued its rebound yesterday‚ gaining 8% to R9.14 – taking it back to about a sixth of the R57.50 it was trading at before the scandal broke. – BusinessLIVE/TimesLIVE Chairman Wiese takes interim charge as chief executive Markus Jooste quits Steinhoff International’s shares crashed yesterday after it revealed accounting irregularities and its chief executive officer, shocking investors who had backed the rapid reinvention of a South African furniture chain into an international retail empire. The company said late on… December 7, 2017 Ben Kruger will step down as joint chief executive of Standard Bank with immediate effect‚ the banking group said yesterday. The joint chief executive structure‚ “which was necessary in 2013‚ has met and in many respects exceeded expectations”‚ Standard Bank said in a statement. Kruger would remain an executive director… September 13, 2017 With the transition from General Motors South Africa (GMSA) operations to a 100% Isuzu Motors South Africa (IMSA) production entity nearing completion, Isuzu has announced senior leadership appointments for South Africa, which will come into effect in January. The new appointments, which along with Isuzu’s purchase of GM’s 30% shareholding… September 14, 2017