While the future of star Mamelodi Sundowns midfielder Khama Billiat remains uncertain‚ coach Pitso Mosimane can sleep a lot easier after the club completed the contract extensions of other key players. Sundowns have announced that they have extended the contracts of Kennedy Mweene‚ Motjeka Madisha‚ Themba Zwane and Siyanda Zwane. Goalkeeper Mweene‚ defender Madisha and midfielder Zwane have played a vital role in Sundowns’ ascension to the top of the PSL standings at the halfway mark, while Siyanda Zwane has been a peripheral figure this season. Mosimane said this week renewing the contracts of key players and adding a few new faces to boost the squad were high on his agenda ahead of the Caf Champions League in the new year. “This is a period where other players have to go and others come in‚” he said. “As I have already told you‚ we are strengthening the team. “For us‚ January is six weeks before the start of the Champions League and we have to bring in a few players. “It is not easy because the players we bring must acclimatise‚ but we will probably bring in two from the outside.” Brazilians give Mosimane anniversary present, move to top of league table Mamelodi Sundowns players gave coach Pitso Mosimane a belated fifth-year anniversary present with an easy 4-0 win over Baroka FC in their Absa Premiership encounter at the Lucas Moripe Stadium in Atteridgeville last night. Mosimane finished five years on… December 6, 2017 But Polokwane City ready to claim revenge for Cup loss Chippa United will be out to double their winnings against Polokwane City when the two sides meet in a Premier Soccer League fixture at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium tonight (7.30pm). The Port Elizabeth soccer team’s charges hope to repeat… April 11, 2017 Mosimane promises adjustments to strengthen side after cup final PITSO Mosimane has revealed that he will initiate a player clear-out at Mamelodi Sundowns after he struggled to find room in his squad for some of them. At the Lucas Moripe Stadium against AmaTuks at the weekend, the Brazilians looked a… May 12, 2015