 After travelling to Durban and Cape Town for gin festivals, Slipperfields’ Jana Rademeyer has decided it is time Port Elizabeth had its own gin, beer and spirits festival. The Slipperfields Gin, Beer and Spirits Festival, presented by Algoa FM, will be held at the farm in Ladyslipper on Monday and Tuesday, with more than 40 local and international gins, beers and spirits on offer from 11am to 11pm on both days. Bridge Street Brewery, Benn Koppen, Brickmakers Distillery and Barneys Tavern will showcase local beers, spirits and gins while Honeybox serves its signature cocktails made from local products. To toughen up tummies while gulping all the drinks on show, festivalgoers will be spoilt for choice with more than 20 food stalls to be set up and some of the Bay’s favourite food trucks including Foongs, Food Emergency, uKutya and The Munch Box on offer. The Slipperfields restaurant will have cheese platters with roosterkoek; also there will be Frederick & Son with their gourmet burgers, and paella from Wanna Spoon? Fans of Walmer’s The Yellow Door at Boca will not be left out as their pop-up restaurant will have gin cocktails and tapas on sale. To ensure responsible drinking and safety, the Slipperfields team encourage festivalgoers to make use of the Tavcor Commercial shuttle service that will be running every 90 minutes. Shuttle space bookings cost a non-perishable food item or a bag of cat or dog food. This food donation, deliverable to Tavcor Commercial, 6 Mount Road, will get the donor a transport token to and from the festival. Food items collected will be donated to local charities Love Story, Cat Care and Save-a-Pet. Shuttle bookings must be done by tomorrow. Festival tickets are R200 at Slipperfields, The Yellow Door at Boca and Tavcor Commercial. Information on electronic payment is available on the Slipperfields Gin, Beer & Spirits Festival Presented By Algoa FM Facebook page. Artisanal gin craze a surefire way to uplift the spirit With several offerings now available, a few establishments around Nelson Mandela Bay have opened up bars specifically dedicated to the alcoholic beverage. According to wine and spirits adviser Ronelle Wright, the trend, originating from Europe, has been growing that side… October 1, 2017 Globally it’s called the “ginaissance” – the trend for small-batch, locally-made craft gin – and South Africa has embraced the movement, with more than a dozen artisan distilleries springing up in the past year and giving it a unique local spin with ingredients like fynbos, buchu and spekboom. Craft gin… January 28, 2017 Carpaccio, craft beer and koeksisters all part of this culinary ‘kuier’, writes JAZZING IT UP KAROO food is no longer just about lamb chops. There is so much more to the iconic area’s cuisine, in fact, that an entire weekend – dubbed by some the “slow-food weekend” – has been… March 28, 2015