Sheriff on personal mission to put murderers of policewoman in jail The sheriff of Port Elizabeth North has posted a reward of R10 000 for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the gunmen who fired at two police officers, killing one and seriously wounding the other, during a robbery in Port Elizabeth. Llewellyn Sharp, one of three sheriffs of the court operating in the Bay, is offering the reward in his private capacity following the shooting of Constable Caroline Mjandana, 38, and Sergeant Anele France, 43, at PE Ice Cream in Sydenham at about 11pm last Thursday. Mjandana, was fatally shot in the neck, while France was shot in the head, resulting in the loss of an eye later. They were shot in their police vehicle while responding to an alarm at the Paterson Road business. France was treated at Greenacres Hospital and discharged later. “There are two reasons for the reward for the capture and charging of the suspects,” Sharp said. “The first is that we work with the police daily – they support us in effecting our duties and we have a close working relationship with them. “This attack was an attack on one of our own. “The second is that I am a member and team leader of a neighbourhood watch which covers the area where the attempted robbery took place. “Earlier the same evening that the officers were shot, members of our neighbourhood watch came across a suspicious, stationary vehicle. “The police were called and [Mjandana and France] attended to that call. “Two hours later, they were shot.” Sharp said he had helped distribute the pamphlets advertising the reward yesterday. Mjandana and France went to the business after eight robbers allegedly ambushed and tied up a security guard there and then reportedly pushed a panic button on the premises by accident. The guard’s supervisor was alerted and notified the police before going to the scene himself. However, when he arrived there, he was held at gunpoint along with the security guard. The two officers were shot when they went to investigate the alarm. The suspects allegedly also took their firearms and cellphones. Police spokeswoman Captain Sandra Janse van Rensburg said yesterday that France, who lives in Mount Croix, had been discharged from hospital on Sunday. “He is in a stable condition, but still very traumatised,” she said. “The doctors believed he was stable enough to go home, although he will still have to undergo further surgery. “One of his eyes was removed as a result of the shooting.” Janse van Rensburg said a memorial service for Mjandana would be held at the Dutch Reformed church on the corner of Kirkwood and Geard streets in North End today. Her funeral service would take place in Dimbaza near East London on Saturday. A policewoman was shot dead and another officer is in a critical condition in hospital after they were fired at in their police van at the scene of an attempted robbery at a Sydenham, Port Elizabeth, factory. Constable Caroline Mjandana, 38, was killed while her partner, Sergeant Anele France, 43,… December 23, 2017 Court rejects PE man’s claim it was lied to about restaurant sale profit A Port Elizabeth man has failed in his bid to have a maintenance order rescinded after he claimed his former wife lied to the court about how much money she pocketed through the sale of a local… July 6, 2016   A Kwa- Nobuhle man’s attempt to sue Police Minister Nathi Nhleko for R1.2-million fell short in the Port Elizabeth High Court yesterday when one of his two claims was dismissed. Xolani Mbozana, 29, alleged that police Constable Xolani Jack shot him on July 22 2013 while he was in… June 29, 2016