SA’s tax revenue will be negatively affected if Steinhoff does not survive the corruption scandal in which it has been implicated‚ says Deputy Finance Minister Sfiso Buthelezi. He was speaking to reporters in Johannesburg on Friday following a meeting between the ministry and stakeholders‚ which resulted in a probe being launched into the retailer’s activities. Stakeholders included the CEO Initiative‚ the Manufacturing Circle‚ the Government Employees Pension Fund‚ the JSE‚ the Public Investment Corporation (PIC)‚ the South African Revenue Service (SARS)‚ the Financial Services Board (FSB) and the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors (Irba). The international retailer‚ which has a dual listing on the JSE and in Frankfurt‚ has been hit by allegations of fraud and corruption‚ which led to it losing billions of dollars of its total market value. Buthelezi said if the company collapsed‚ it would not only affect direct shareholders and pension funds‚ but also reduce tax revenue collection. A collapse would result in thousands of workers at its numerous South African businesses losing their jobs in a country already suffering from high unemployment and inequality levels. Steinhoff shareholders keen to know why red flags were missed Most South Africans who invested are poorer today due to Steinhoff’s business collapse and are asking for answers from fund managers. But they say the business was so complicated‚ with audited financial statements appearing so reasonable‚ that it was easy… December 13, 2017 The Steinhoff share price continued to collapse on Thursday morning‚ dropping another 32% to R11.95 following the wipe out of 60% of the share’s value on Wednesday. The market value of Steinhoff has been cut by more than R150-billion this week dropping to an all time low of just R76-billion.… December 7, 2017 A man phoned our newsroom last week to complain bitterly about the Steinhoff scandal. He was particularly irked because he believed the matter was handled with kid gloves by all those he viewed as instruments of social justice. Leading the pack of culprits in his eyes was the media. He… December 13, 2017