If you’ve been on social media over the past three days‚ you’ll have spotted a photo of a receipt for alcohol – including R600 000 for a bottle of Glenfiddich 50-year-old whiskey. The total on the receipt‚ dated 24 December‚ reflects two other very expensive whiskeys – R50 999 for a Port Ellen 30-year-old single malt and R28 999 for a bottle of 34-year-old Brora – both of which are rare. Also purchased was Remy Martin and Moet champagne The total bill comes to a staggering R739 391. TimesLIVE checked whether the receipt is legitimate‚ and tracked down the man whose name appears on the slip. Although he did not wish to be named‚ the 28-year-old confirmed the purchase and said the slip had been “accidentally leaked to social media”. “I am based in Durban and am an underground binary trader invested in property in various cities around South Africa‚” the man told TimesLIVE. “That picture accidentally leaked to social media. I am not a show-off like other Forex or binary traders. Most of them think that they are rich or self-claimed millionaires but when it comes to reality‚ they got nothing‚” he said. Asked whether the R600K bottle of Glenfiddich is worth the price tag‚ the man said he would know on New Year’s Eve. “It’s still closed for 31 December‚” he said. “I bought that day because there are only a few bottles of it around SA.” In October‚ TimesLIVE reported that the bottle of Glenfiddich had tongues wagging when it appeared alongside other six-figure whiskeys in the Makro Christmas catalogue. Makro liquor director Jonathan Koff said at the time they had sold a number of pricey bottles this year‚ but not any of the Glenfiddich – until now.   One of the managers of Sakhumzi restaurant in Vilikazi Street‚ Soweto‚ was shot and killed in the early hours of Sunday morning. He was 60. The police’s spokesman‚ Kay Makhubela‚ said two men tried to force their way into the restaurant at about 12.30am on Sunday. “The manager refused… January 30, 2017 A wealthy patron who splurged R80‚359 in one night at Signature restaurant in Morningside‚ Johannesburg‚ is not President Jacob Zuma and his wives. The presidency refuted the assertion on Tuesday as the claim‚ along with a copy of the restaurant bill‚ went viral on social media. The receipt‚ which can… May 31, 2016 If the receipt of condoms amounting to R1‚052 doing the rounds on social media is anything to go by‚ some revellers had a good time during the Durban July festivities at the weekend. The receipt shows a purchase of 24 packets of condoms‚ a plastic bag and a bottle of… July 4, 2016