Christmas Day is traditionally a day to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ‚ but one young mother went to desperate lengths to conceal the birth of her baby. Now she and her sister are under arrest. The South African Police Service in Mpumalanga said the 23-year-old woman and her 32-year-old sister will appear at the Nkomazi Magistrate’s Court facing concealment of birth as well as attempted murder charges today‚ Wednesday 27 December 2017. At Masibulele Trust‚ near Mbuzini‚ on Christmas Day‚ the police were alerted to a baby’s cries‚ coming from some public toilets not far from the suspects’ parental home. Colonel Mtsholi Bhembe said when the SAPS officials arrived‚ they discovered that it was a newly born baby who had been apparently left for dead in the pit toilet. After preliminary investigations‚ “it transpired that the suspect was aided by her sister in giving birth to a baby girl‚ which they then tried to get rid of”. The sisters were taken into custody after the mother had been taken to hospital for a check-up. The Provincial Commissioner of the police in Mpumalanga‚ Lieutenant General Mondli Zuma‚ urged parents‚ especially young mothers‚ not to attempt to get rid of their offspring due to prevailing circumstances of difficulty or despair‚ but to seek assistance from relevant avenues. “There are social workers who are readily available to receive your unwanted baby and to facilitate adoption processes with couple’s who are desperate for a child”‚ said the General. Nursing sister fought to keep critically ill young mother alive WHEN a 22-year-old student collapsed after giving birth at Dora Nginza Hospital, everyone thought she had died. But as her family was organising her funeral, the critically ill woman’s hand was being held by Sister Veliswa Magele, who was silently… March 14, 2015 Mdantsane police have arrested a 28-year-old woman after recovering a newborn baby kidnapped from a supermarket in East London. The one-day-old girl was taken from her mother in a busy supermarket on the Mdantsane Highway on the pretext of the woman administering care while the new mother was buying baby… February 24, 2016 A 30-year-old woman appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday for stealing a new-born baby. The woman was arrested after police followed up information about her whereabouts in the KwaNyuswa area‚ Hillcrest‚ on Monday. “On 13 August 2016 at about 10am‚ the victim was in one of the hospitals… August 16, 2016