A Port Elizabeth man has been sentenced to 196 years for a series of crimes including 11 counts of robbery with aggravating circumstances. Mkhuseli Matima, 24, of Seyisi, faced 26 charges. Port Elizabeth Regional Court magistrate Twanet Olivier found him guilty on 18 of the 26 counts, which included attempted murder, two counts of possession of an unlicensed firearm, pointing a firearm, negligent discharge of a firearm and escaping from custody. The court ordered Matima to serve an effective 35 years behind bars. His reign of terror began on January 25 2015. A police officer stopped at a service station in Struandale to inflate a flat tyre, when Matima appeared. As the officer knelt to pump up the tyre, Matima forcefully removed his firearm from his waist. Using this weapon, Matima then went on a robbery spree, including a hardware store in Zwide, the Daku SPAR and a garage in Algoa Park. During cross-examination, Matima lost his temper and at one stage refused to answer questions. In handing down the verdict, Olivier said: “Matima’s case was built on an array of lies and improbabilities.” National Prosecuting Authority spokesman Tsepo Ndwalaza said: “We welcome the sentence, hoping it will send a strong message to would-be offenders.” Kathryn Kimberley AN EX-SOLDIER, arrested after he was allegedly found with a large cache of unlicensed firearms and nearly 6000 rounds of live ammunition, was released on R5000 bail yesterday, but not before the court heard the dramatic details leading to his arrest. Police made the shocking discovery last week… January 31, 2014 AFTER a marathon fiveyear trial, the man who brutally murdered an accomplice after he turned state witness in 2009, was sentenced to several prison terms at the Port Elizabeth High Court on Friday. Judge Clive Plasket sentenced Luvuyo Koboka, 31, to life in prison for the murder of Mlungiseleli Bundwini,… December 15, 2014 Gareth Wilson A NELSON Mandela Metropolitan University student described yesterday how he cheated death after being shot with a police firearm that had been stolen just hours before during a burglary. Kamogelo Matshasa, 20, of Pretoria, was shot at 6am on Saturday during an attempted robbery in Havelock Street, Central.… February 25, 2014