One in seven adults admits to being a binge-drinker‚ but economists say the problem is likely to be much worse. Based on admissions in a survey of 20 000 adults‚ UCT researchers say 4.8 billion alcoholic drinks were consumed in 2014-15. But in the same period‚ the South African Revenue Service collected excise duties on four times as many drinks. And an evaluation this year found that only 14.6% of alcohol consumption was accounted for in admissions during the National Income Dynamics Study (NIDS). Nicole Vellios and Corné van Walbeek‚ from the University of Cape Town’s Southern Africa Labour and Development Research Unit‚ said the huge drinking problem revealed in their research strengthened the argument for strong‚ evidence-based policies that reduce the detrimental effects of alcohol use. Writing in the January edition of the South African Medical Journal‚ they said: “The alcohol industry argues that it does not encourage harmful use of alcohol. “Since a very large proportion of alcohol consumed in South Africa is consumed hazardously‚ with associated detrimental consequences‚ the industry’s statements sound hollow‚ since they depend on these drinkers for profits.” Journal editor Bridget Farham calls in an editorial for a crackdown on alcohol advertising. “If we are going to ban advertising and sponsorship by tobacco companies‚ alcohol should be subject to the same scrutiny,” Farnham said. Vellios and Van Walbeek said the 2014-15 NIDS results found that half of men and 20% of women drink. Binge-drinking – defined as five or more drinks a day – was admitted by 14% of adults. PARENTS who believe that following the Continental way of introducing their children to alcohol early as a way of promoting responsible drinking could actually put them at risk of developing alcoholism in later life, a new study has claimed. Researchers at Yale University said the younger people were when they… September 25, 2012 A few drinks at the wrong time could harm unborn child WHILE the perception exists that Foetal Alcohol Syndrome is only prevalent in poor communities where alcoholism is rife, it is not generally known that it can affect higher income groups and could even be triggered by an expectant mother… July 18, 2015 Increased alcohol abuse in youth has serious dangers PARENTS should ideally start talking to their children about the dangers of alcohol before they take their first sip, new American research has found. In a report on binge drinking published in this year’s September issue of Paediatrics, the American Academy of… October 5, 2015