The in-form Warriors will be looking to upset the odds and fight their way into the Ram Slam T20 final as they prepare to take on the Titans in their semifinal match at SuperSport Park in Centurion tomorrow night. The Warriors head into the game on a three-match winning streak and will take plenty of momentum into the massive encounter against a team that beat them twice during the group stages and also in last year’s final. “We are looking forward to it. It is probably for us the best thing that could have happened,” Warriors coach Malibongwe Maketa said. “To be given the opportunity to play against a really great Titans team in a big stakes semifinal in front of a packed stadium is going to be amazing. “We believe that we are one of the best sides in this competition and we have proven it now. “It is a great opportunity for us to go out there and put our best foot forward.” It has been an incredible comeback story for the Warriors, who looked down and out after the first four games of the competition. They lost three games while one was a washout, leaving them bottom of the log on just two points. Three games later things had not improved much with just one win and two losses seeing them still prop up the table. The team then went into overdrive in the last three matches, winning them all, to claw their way back up the log into fourth place to qualify for the knockouts. “I am really happy for the guys and really proud of the way we fought after the difficult start to the season,” Maketa said. “The self-belief we have gained from these last three games is just unbelievable. “We have stayed calm under pressure and enjoyed the occasion of taking on the big teams and executing our skills when it has mattered. “For me that has been very positive for the team.” In what was essentially a knockout match against the Cobras on Sunday, the Warriors put in a superb performance to claim a comfortable 18-run win to force their way into the semis. Captain Jon-Jon Smuts, Colin Ingram and the in-form Christiaan Jonker contributed with scores of 48, 41 and 38 respectively to help the team reach 168/5 batting first. Ingram (2/18) and Jonker (1/6) along with Andrew Birch (1/28) then all shone with the ball to get the Warriors comfortably over the line. The Warriors v Titans match gets under way at 6pm tomorrow. Smuts’s men aim to turn tables on Titans in one-day final You would be forgiven for feeling a sense of deja vu as the Warriors head into battle against the Titans in a major final for the second time this season. With the two having met in the final of the… March 31, 2017 Victory today likely to ensure playoff berth The Warriors enter the last-chance saloon today in their quest to reach the Momentum One-Day Cup playoff on Sunday. The Eastern Cape franchise takes on the Highveld Lions in a clash at St George’s Park that means very little but pride to the… March 23, 2017 Good news as all-rounder Ackermann gets fitness green light for Dolphins encounter There was good news for the Warriors yesterday when all-rounder Colin Ackermann was declared fit to face the Dolphins in their Momentum Cup One-Day clash at St George’s Park today (2pm). Ackermann missed the victory over the Knights… March 3, 2017