Finally the holidays have arrived and what would most of us not give for a trip around the world, soaking up the entire world’s splendour? In the Nelson Mandela Bay area, we are privileged to have many eateries that showcase some of the most incredible cuisine around the world, so if you left your travel plans to the last minute or are a visitor to the Bay and are looking for something a little more exotic, it’s best you fasten your seatbelt and prepare for the trip of a lifetime, minus the airfare right here in the glorious Nelson Mandela Bay. First stop – Mexico! Tilting Heads on Stanley Street is a must. Be sure to go hungry and ready to party. It’s definitely an experience you want to enjoy with family and friends – it’s extremely festive and the more people at the table, the more dishes to order and there is pretty much nothing on the menu you shouldn’t try at least once. No matter what, be sure to order at least a portion of avocado fries, a frozen margarita (or two) and be sure to leave room for dessert – churros, fried dough dusted with sugar or cinnamon served with an incredible chocolate sauce. Next up, we cruise the Mediterranean Sea and enjoy the truest form of comfort food – Italian. Nolio recently opened up alongside Fushin on Stanley Street and if you haven’t tried it, you certainly need to put it on your list of places to visit this festive season. A dish that is certain to tickle your taste buds is Carpaccio Di Polpo and they make some truly scrumptious gnocchi too. Order a glass of wine and enjoy the company of some of your nearest and dearest, the Italian way. Last but certainly not least, Todos Locos – OLÉ! You guessed it, Spain! This little place has a whole lot of heart and soul and it is so evident when you observe the interaction between the owner and her regular patrons, that you very quickly become family in this quaint but gorgeous place. There is so much love and attention to detail – it’s very evident that you are observing a person’s dream unfold before you. What a beautiful dream it is. Be sure to save room for dessert – the crème brulée may just be the best in town. No matter where you find yourself this festive season, eat well, live well. Cherish the memories you make with the special people in your lives and have a truly blessed festive season.   DEAR Mr Mayor, Firstly, it is great to know that you are still around. The reason that I say that is because most of the time, it does seem as if this city of ours is rudderless and without anybody who knows where it is going. To me, it is… March 5, 2014 A friend reminded me this past week that debates, questioning and frank conversations are a key element of what makes democracies work. She said we must never try to shut them down, but rather hold such conversations with respect, maturity and most importantly with an open mind. Unfortunately there is… October 19, 2017 IN honour of former statesman Nelson Mandela, whose death a year ago will be commemorated tomorrow, the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality has unveiled a series of legacy projects to attract tourists and promote unity among Bay residents. The metro has set aside R6.5-million to launch the Mandela Bay International Film… December 4, 2014