An innovative and internationally recognised animation artist, a sports administrator with a penchant for community development, and the owner of a techno hub assisting start-up entrepreneurs to flourish were among a number of former students honoured at the annual Nelson Mandela University Alumni Awards last night. Cape Town animation studio Triggerfish owner and chief executive Stuart Forrest, arts graduate and sports administrator Mandla Gagayi, and co-founder and executive director of Zambia’s BongoHive Technology and Innovation Hub, Lukonga Lindunda, were lauded for their contribution to society through their professional endeavours. The prestigious awards celebrate the local and international success stories of graduates who have not just climbed the corporate ladder, but have become inspiring leaders and change agents across the world. The awards honour former students in the top-end Alumni Achievers and the Rising Stars categories. Forrest and Gagayi were among those lauded in the Achievers category, and Lindunda as a Rising Star. Others honoured in the Achievers category were the president of New York-based change management consultancy Kotter Inc, Russell Raath, and software company Amdocs regional vice-president Tony Wenlock. Forrest’s Triggerfish studio is best known for producing two of Africa’s most globally successful films, Adventures in Zambezia and Khumba. It employs 100 artists and its films have grossed more than R1-billion. Gagayi was recognised for his significant contribution to the development of sport in South Africa’s higher education sector, having headed the sports departments at two universities. He has raised the profile of university sport, while also taking sport into poor communities. Lindunda held a string of IT positions in Zambia before venturing into BongoHive, Zambia’s first and only technology and innovation hub. Other recipients in the Rising Stars category were earth scientist and specialist scientific advisor Dr Gaathier Mahed; entrepreneur and Nonku Ntshona & Associates Quantity Surveyors managing director Nonkululeko Ntshona, and Pharmacy graduate Ifedolapo Ojo. Celebrating the achievements and successes of former students, the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University hosted its annual Alumni Awards on Friday night (10/03/17), with recipients ranging from international cricket referees to a computer genius and a local dairy farmer. The awards are intended to recognise local and international success stories of… March 12, 2017 Zandile Mbabela FORMER Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University students who have gone on to make names for themselves were last night honoured at a glitzy ceremony held at the Boardwalk Convention Centre. The NMMU Alumni Awards saw leaders of multinational companies and other game changers in their respective fields receive awards… November 1, 2013 Shaun Gillham IN a testimony to its exceptionally high standards, the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University showcased a number of South African household names at its 2012 Alumni Awards held in Port Elizabeth last night. With the opening and keynote addresses by NMMU's Alumni Association president Randall Jonas and vice- chancellor… October 26, 2012