Assault charges against Idols SA runner-up Mthokozisi Ndaba were on Monday morning withdrawn at the Hillbrow Magistrates Court. Mthokozisi appeared in court after being arrested by police on Thursday night. Dressed in a maroon suit‚ Mthokozisi sat in silence in the court room where he was supported by friends. Mthokozisi has hogged headlines after a 24-year-old woman accused him of assaulting her in a Braamfontein flat two weeks ago. Shortly after the accusations emerged‚ Mthokozisi issued a statement saying the law should takes its course. “In as much as this has affected me‚ the craft God blessed me with‚ my family‚ friends and fans negatively; let us please let our SA law handle the matter rightfully.” He went on to urge SA to “continue taking a stand against violence on women and children”. During an interview on East Coast Radio‚ the woman urged Mthokozisi to tell the “truth” about what happened that night. Mthokozisi‚ who lost out on the Idols title earlier this month‚ went underground after the loss after it was confirmed he had to “receive assistance” to deal with the emotions that came with loosing. He also declined to all media interviews after the finale. Idols SA runner-up Mthokozisi Ndaba has responded to claims that he allegedly assaulted a young woman in Johannesburg on Saturday‚ urging fans to "continue taking a stand against violence on women and children". Mthokozisi made headlines over the weekend when pictures of the apparent abuse were shared on social media‚… November 28, 2017 Police have confirmed Idols SA runner-up Mthokozisi Ndaba has been accused of allegedly assaulting a young woman in a Johannesburg flat on Saturday morning. Pictures of the alleged abuse were shared on social media on Saturday‚ with an image of the alleged victim's bloody lip and what appeared to be… November 26, 2017 Idols runner-up Mthokozisi Ndaba‚ who is accused of assaulting a woman‚ says he is not leaving Johannesburg until “this thing is over”. Neo Tsele‚ 20‚ laid a complaint with the Hillbrow police on Saturday, claiming Ndaba had assaulted her at a friend’s Braamfontein flat at about 1am that day. Tsele… November 27, 2017