When it comes to salary increases for municipal councillors next year, the buck will stop with mayor Athol Trollip. This emerged from a tense, full-day council meeting on Thursday, the last for the year. During the meeting, the house had failed to reach full agreement on any key issues, with the sole exception of a unanimous vote on Trollip’s authority to sign off increases for the 2017/18 financial year. The vote on the item brought a rare moment of calm to the meeting in the council chambers. While all councillors had raised their hands when the item was put to a vote, some councillors, such as the UDM’s Mongameli Bobani, jokingly shouted they had abstained from voting while they had their hands in midair. On vote was a corporate services report around remuneration, tabled by Trollip. The report recommended that the council vote to allow Trollip to make a decision on councillor remuneration increases for the 2017/18 financial year. The report also recommended that, in the event Corporate Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) Minister Des van Rooyen published a national gazette notice on guidelines for salary increases for councilors this month while councilors were in recess, Trollip would be mandated to sign off on the increases. At present, public office bearers in the city earn between R458 706 and R1 242 409 a year. The total remuneration package for Trollip is R1 242 409 and for council speaker Jonathan Lawack R1 003 393, while members of the mayoral committee and the whip receive R940 680. Ordinary councillors earn R458 706 each a year. These remunerations are expected to be increased in the next financial year. On Wednesday, the Presidency announced that increases of between 4% and 5% were on the cards for public office bearers, while traditional leaders were set to get a hike of up to 8%. The Independent Commission for the Remuneration for Public Office Bearers will also make a recommendation for local government office bearers to Van Rooyen. City manager Johan Mettler said remuneration for councillors was expected to increase by 4%. However, the report recommends that the adjustment be at 5%, subject to affordability. Mettler said a separate notice from Van Rooyen was expected to be issued this month. “If it comes, we will apply the maximum allowable and then the mayor will probably approve that, but I don’t know what the mayor is going to do,” Mettler said. “As soon as we get it, we will place it before the mayor so he can make a decision.” Thursday’s meeting saw councillors butting heads and hurling insults at each other as they disagreed on many of the items put up for debate. All councillors agreed on the remuneration report. The report also referenced a review of the scarce skills list and the decision made on long-service bonuses. According to the report, the city had looked at various options and negotiations. However, a financial assessment indicated back pay would not be affordable and the matter was closed. In just a few hours, Athol Trollip will know whether he is still the mayor of Nelson Mandela Bay. His fate is in the hands of six EFF councillors, who have been lobbied furiously by the parties on both sides of the no-confidence motion and played their cards close to… November 30, 2017 Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip had the last laugh yesterday when a bid to remove him by two of his fiercest rivals bombed. Amid a stormy council meeting, the last for the year, Trollip saw a motion for a vote of no confidence in him, brought by PA councillor… December 1, 2017 Tomorrow the Nelson Mandela Bay council will meet for the last time this year. Apart from the meaningless political theatrics likely to be on display, the agenda – 21 pages of it in particular – makes for interesting reading. Three matters caught my attention. The first stood out, not because… November 29, 2017