Special gazette lists perks for ‘retired’ Zimbabwe presidents Robert Mugabe may no longer be the Zimbabwean president‚ but he will be living like one. Mugabe, 93, was forced to resign last month after a temporary military takeover. Emmerson Mnangagwa, who had been sacked from his job as vice-president by Mugabe earlier that month, then took over as head of state. Mnangagwa has revealed – in an official gazette – that Mugabe and his wife, Grace, 52, are entitled to more than 25 staff‚ a fully furnished office‚ two properties‚ a fleet of cars for employees‚ private international travel and an entertainment allowance. Grace will also be looked after when Mugabe dies and entitled to stay in an official residence. Zimbabwe’s The Herald newspaper reported yesterday that Mnangagwa had released a special gazette detailing the benefits applicable to a retired president. The gazette specifically details benefits for any retired president who ruled Zimbabwe since 1987. That was the year Mugabe went from being prime minister to president‚ suggesting the law was specifically designed with the Mugabes in mind. Perks allocated to Mugabe include: ý A fully furnished official residence in Harare; The private residence‚ described in the gazette as a reasonably sized house‚ is allowed to have five bedrooms‚ a guest wing with three guest rooms‚ a study‚ swimming pool‚ two guardrooms and two garages. The benefits also include medical aid contributions for the former president‚ his wife and children under the age of 21. Mugabe and his wife will have diplomatic passports‚ and first-class air and train transport four times a year inside the country, as well as four international private air trips and the use of a Mercedes-Benz 500 series or equivalent vehicle in a foreign country. – TimesLIVE Zimbabwe has been gripped by an escalating spat between the president’s wife and his senior vice-president over a bizarre poisoning incident that has laid bare the pair’s ambitions to succeed President Robert Mugabe. Though Mugabe has repeatedly condemned factionalism and refused to discuss his successor, his declining health and the… October 7, 2017   Robert Mugabe resigned as Zimbabwe's president on Tuesday, shortly after parliament began an impeachment process to end his nearly four decades of rule. The 93-year old clung on for a week after an army takeover and expulsion from his own ruling ZANU-PF party, which also told him to leave… November 21, 2017 Mugabe’s party accuses military chief of treason after show of force Uncertainty swirled around Harare yesterday as tanks were seen moving near Zimbabwe’s capital, in a suspected deliberate show of force, a day after the armed forces chief said he was prepared to step in to end a purge of… November 15, 2017