Notorious for dragging its heels when it comes to making tough decisions, SA Rugby needs to make a quick call on the future of coach Allister Coetzee. While many thought Coetzee would get the boot immediately after the end-of-season European tour, the saga has been allowed to drag on. On his return from Europe, Coetzee underwent a review process and a decision on his future is yet to be made. Under Coetzee, the Boks have slipped to sixth in the world, winning only 11 of the 22 tests played under his tenure. Putting even more pressure on Coetzee was a humiliating 57-0 loss to the All Blacks and an embarrassing first defeat against Italy. With England set to arrive in South Africa for a three-test series in June, there is no time to lose in deciding Coetzee’s fate. Insiders say Coetzee has already met with SA’s director of rugby Rassie Erasmus to discuss the state of the Springboks. Following that meeting there was speculation that Coetzee would be removed from his post once every legal and moral obligation had been fulfilled by SA Rugby. If Coetzee is eventually sacked, SA Rugby’s next challenge would be to find a suitable replacement. However, with SA Rugby losing R23.3-million in their last financial year, they may not have the cash needed to recruit a top coach. If Coetzee is removed, Erasmus and defence guru Jacques Nienaber could get an interim coaching structure going. Erasmus may also decide to make use of Southern Kings coach Deon Davids, who is already on SA Rugby’s payroll and is highly rated. The signs do not look good for Coetzee, who has been unable to stamp his authority on the side during two tough seasons. After a difficult time last year, things cannot possibly get any worse for South African rugby in 2017. Or can they? Assuming that because 2016 was so poor, the only way for the Springboks in particular‚ and South African rugby in general, is up is to make a dangerous prediction.… January 9, 2017 Springbok coach Allister Coetzee’s future employment could be counted in days after SA Rugby’s executive council met on Sunday and Monday to discuss it. Coetzee’s job wasn’t the only item on the scheduled agenda but it was the most pressing. The exact outcome of the gathering remains unclear at this… January 24, 2017 It is for a good reason that coaching the Springbok rugby team has been likened to a poison chalice over the years. Few would argue that it is perhaps the hottest seat in world rugby and the latest coach feeling the pressure is Grahamstown-born Allister Coetzee. There were high hopes… November 30, 2017