Nelson Mandela Bay residents are in for a jam-packed holiday aft – er the official opening of the summer season at Hobie Beach today. The line-up for festivities, which start today and end on December 31, includes a performance from award-winning afro-soul songstress Zahara, movies, a picnic and a fireworks display all taking place. The SPAR Delight in Summer Festival kicks off with performances by vocalist Garth Jooste, popular dance crew PE’s Finest and a group of gumboot dancers, Isingqi se-Afrika, tonight at Hobie Beach. Event manager Alan Stapleton said the festival was a thank you to residents for their support of SPAR. “We would like locals and visitors to enjoy this little secret pearl of beauty that we have in Port Elizabeth in the spirit of family and fun.” The festival is run in partnership with Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism. Those who attend can also expect a fireworks display at 8pm. For a more cosy setup, holiday- makers can attend the movie and carols by candlelight evening at Happy Valley on Friday December 22, when Matthew Mole will per form. The festivities move to Willow Dam for the Uitenhage picnic on Saturday December 23. Zahara will showcase her new album, Imigodi, at the Tramways Building during the Sizzling Sessions on December 27. New Year’s Eve celebrations will start at Hobie Beach and Wells Estate beach at 4pm on the December 31. Nelson Mandela Bay residents are in for a one-of-a-kind summer season – the municipality presented a jam-packed silly season at a media briefing yesterday. From music festivals, Christmas carol services and a fireworks display to sporting events, residents of all ages will have an unforgettable festive season. The summer season… November 18, 2016 Yoliswa Sobuwa THE festive season in Nelson Mandela Bay will be "bigger and better" this year, with some national acts expected to help residents and visitors get in the party mood. Soul Good, the company charged with managing the season's events, has promised six concerts, three fireworks displays, jazz picnics… November 15, 2013 The Port Elizabeth beachfront and Uitenhage will be abuzz with with of the SPAR Delight in Summer festival. Here is what is next up: Wednesday December 21: Sizzling Sessions (Tramways, 6pm) Thursday December 22: Outdoor cinema and Carols by Candlelight (Happy Valley, 5pm) Tuesday December 27: Springs Fiesta (Springs Resort;… December 18, 2016