After suffering 10 consecutive defeats, the battle-weary Southern Kings players have been given a three-week break before their next match against Edinburgh in Scotland on January 5. Kings coach Deon Davids said the team broke up after their clash with Edinburgh on Friday at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth and would regroup on December 26 to start preparing for their trip to Scotland. The break will give the Kings a much-needed breather and will allow players carrying bumps and bruises extra time to recover. “The players will return on December 26 and we will start training on the 27th until December 31. “They will be off on New Year’s Day and then we get on the plane for Scotland at 8am on January 2. “It will be a challenging and hectic schedule, taking into account the travel,” Davids said. “We will be training here in the heat and we will face [below-zero] temperatures when we get off the plane in Scotland.” Davids felt conditions would favour teams coming from bad weather in Europe into better South African conditions. “Obviously for visiting teams, heat will play a factor, but for execution it is better. “For all the teams it will be a challenging time in the second round,” Davids said. It has been a tough start in the PRO14 for the Kings, who have been unable to win any of their opening 10 matches. The Kings, bankrolled by the SA Rugby Union, have struggled to keep their heads above water and it remains to be seen whether they will be reinforced for the second half of the season. After their trip to Scotland, the Kings’ next game in Port Elizabeth is against the Cheetahs on January 13. It will be blood, sweat and tears on the training field for the Southern Kings over the next seven weeks as they gear up for Super Rugby in their first block of intense pre-season training. The team will have a break over the festive season from December 22 to January… November 9, 2016 Southern Kings pivot Oliver Zono will miss Friday’s PRO14 match against Edinburgh after suffering a concussion against the Scarlets on Sunday. Zono left the field at the start of the second half at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth after playing an influential role in the Kings building… November 28, 2017 THE EP Kings Currie Cup squad will have training sessions against the Springboks and Scotland today to help the international teams prepare for Saturday's test showdown. Kings chief executive Charl Crous said one group of players would train against Scotland in the morning and the remainder of the squad would… June 24, 2014