Breetzke, De Klerk, Smith to play in World Cup South Africa will be captained by Free State’s Raynard van Tonder at the U19 Cricket World Cup in New Zealand from January 13 to February 3. Van Tonder will lead the side for his third major tour. Other exciting selections include EP opening batsman Matthew Breetzke, who has already made his franchise debut for the Warriors. He was also the leading run scorer for the aspiring Proteas with 238 runs in their recently concluded Youth One-Day triangular series against England and Namibia in Potchefstroom. Also included are two other EP players in Jade de Klerk and Kenan Smith. In the bowling department, Thando Ntini, the 17-year-old son of former Proteas fast bowler Makhaya Ntini, looks set to follow in his father’s footsteps. The youngster has impressed selectors this year. The U19 World Cup, held every two years, will see 16 teams fight for a chance to claim the 2018 honours. South Africa, under the captaincy of recently capped Proteas test opening batsman Aiden Markram, won in 2014. South Africa will make up Group A with the hosts, New Zealand, defending champions West Indies and Kenya. Group B comprises Australia, India, Papua New Guinea and Zimbabwe; Group C includes Bangladesh, Canada, England and Namibia and Group D rounds off with Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Ireland. Team coach Lawrence Mahatlane is confident the selectors have made the right choices and is excited by the collective experience of the team. “It’s definitely one of the most exciting times in these kids’ lives and careers and it’s a thoroughly deserved honour that they receive,” he said. “This is the culmination of the last 24 months’ hard work and they have certainly put in the hours and effort to be named in this World Cup squad. “More than half the squad have semi-professional cricket experience and we even have a franchise player in Matthew Breetzke.” Matthew Breetzke, Jade de Klerk and Kenan Smith up for triangular series Three Eastern Province cricketers are in the South Africa U19 squad to play England and Namibia in a five-match Youth One Day International Triangular series in Potchefstroom from next month. The talented trio of Matthew Breetzke, Jade de… October 25, 2017 Khaya Majola Cricket Week ends with selection honours Four Eastern Province under-19 players have been included in the national schools team announced at the conclusion of the annual Coca-Cola Khaya Majola Cricket Week in Bloemfontein this week. They are Lutho Siphamla (Grey), Matthew Breetzke (Grey), Jade de Klerk (Woodridge) and… December 22, 2016 The son of Proteas bowling legend Makhaya Ntini has been named in the South Africa Under-19 squad to take on the West Indies in a five-match Youth ODI series in Durban and Pietermaritzburg in July. Thando Ntini is one of nine new caps in the squad that will captained by Raynard… May 20, 2017