A 50-year-old man‚ believed to be a local resident‚ died after a small boat carrying a family of six and a small dog capsized in the Port of St Francis harbour mouth in the Eastern Cape on Sunday morning‚ the National Sea Rescue Institute reported. It said the small boat‚ Blue Dolphin‚ registered in Mossel Bay‚ was found washed up on rocks and that a private boat‚ Juwana‚ had rescued the 50-year-old grandfather‚ his son and granddaughter and grandson and a Yorkie dog. “His wife and her daughter had made it to rocks where members of the public assisted them and brought them to the harbour‚” the NSRI said. “NSRI medics and the NSRI duty doctor performed CPR (Cardio Pulmonary resuscitation) on the 50-year-old man and on arrival on the scene of Private Care ambulance services paramedics and EC Government Health EMS paramedics‚ CPR continued but despite extensive CPR efforts the man was sadly declared deceased after all efforts to resuscitate him were exhausted. “The body of the deceased man has been taken into the care of the Forensic Pathology services and Police have opened an inquest docket.” The remaining family members were treated for shock and for cuts and bruises and were recovering‚ the NSRI said. “It appears that the small boat may have stopped in the harbour entrance where despite the calm seas a wave may have capsized the boat‚” it added. Six people, including a five-year-old, drowned at Eastern Cape beaches on New Year’s Day. None of the drownings occurred on Nelson Mandela Bay beaches, but three people drowned in Port Alfred. Emergency services personnel had their hands full, with the National Sea Rescue Institute called to assist in several incidents.… January 3, 2017 Following at least 13 rescues and one death at sea‚ the NSRI has urged the public to be cautious around all water‚ coastal and inland‚ as well as at swimming pools over this festive season. The following is a round-up of rescues the non-profit organisation‚ which has more than 1000… December 26, 2017 The National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) experienced a busy weekend with several callouts. NSRI Plettenberg Bay responded to a woman on a jet-ski in difficulty in the Keurboom River Mouth yesterday (December, 6). Two men and a woman on a rubber duck tried to assist her. One man jumped out… December 7, 2015