Why were South Africans glued to their computers and devices this year? YouTube Rewind has the answer: Bhizer and Prince Kaybee. Every year the video-sharing site compiles a list of its most-watched videos‚ and in common with the rest of the world South Africa loves its music videos. Gobisiqolo – Bhizer ft Busiswa, SC Gorna, Bhepepe    Prince Kaybee Ft Lady Zamar – Charlotte (Official Video)    Sun-EL Musician – Akanamali Feat. Samthing Soweto    Noko Mashaba – Student Problems #CAClasses    Topping the list was “Gobisiqolo”‚ the dance anthem by Bhizer‚ which was viewed more than four million times and has more than 20 000 likes. Next was Prince Kaybee’s smash hit “Charlotte”‚ with more than 3.5 million views‚ followed by Sun-EL Musician’s “Akanamali” (2.5 million views) and a Ramscomics comic strip about student problems. YouTube Rewind’s “Shape of 2017” video‚ uploaded on Wednesday and with more than 25 million views a day later‚ was shot in locations ranging from Rio and London to Tokyo. US comedian and TV host Stephen Colbert is featured in the video‚ which has a soundtrack from the world’s most-watched video of the year — Puerto Rican artist Luis Fonsi’s “Despacito”. It features the year’s big toy craze‚ the fidget spinner‚ as well as footage from the hurricanes that wreaked havoc in the US and the Caribbean and August’s solar eclipse. Click here for the worldwide list YouTube’s 2017 Top 10: 1. Luis Fonsi – Despacito ft. Daddy Yankee 2. Ed Sheeran – Shape of You [Official Video] 3. J Balvin‚ Willy William – Mi Gente (Official Video) 4. Maluma – Felices los 4 (Official Video) 5. Bruno Mars – That’s What I Like [Official Video] 6. Chris Jeday – Ahora Dice (Official Video) ft. J. Balvin‚ Ozuna‚ Arcángel 7. 05. El Amante – Nicky Jam (Video Oficial) (Álbum Fénix) 8. Jason Derulo – Swalla (feat. Nicki Minaj & Ty Dolla $ign) (Official Music Video) 9. DJ Khaled – I’m the One ft. Justin Bieber‚ Quavo‚ Chance the Rapper‚ Lil Wayne 10. Enrique Iglesias – SUBEME LA RADIO (Official Video) ft. Descemer Bueno‚ Zion & Lennox KISSING a stranger on camera is too intimate and shameful for South Africans. A group of The South African School of Motion Picture Medium and Live Performance students took to the streets with an odd request last week. "Will you kiss a complete stranger on camera?" they asked shoppers at… April 17, 2014 Miriam Makeba’s beat is going global again, thanks to a young French singer. Jain has released a music video, Makeba. The video has attracted more than 750 000 Youtube views since its release by Jain last week. Remembered as Mama Africa, and best known for the song Pata Pata, Makeba… December 8, 2016 WHILE the advertising of cigarettes is banned and there are plans to ban alcohol advertisements, a new research study found that just by watching music videos on YouTube, teenagers specifically, were exposed to millions of images showing drinking and smoking in a glamorous light. A study published last month in… March 31, 2016