Make no mistake, Nelson Mandela Bay is fast catching up with the likes of Cape Town when it comes to getting crafty over beer. The Mother City is known for its array of diverse artisan brews and is quite egotistical about it, but the Bay is catching up fast. So “beer-ware”, Capetonians. Especially when it comes to the likes of the Richmond Hill Brewing Company (RHBC) taphouse which, despite its name, you’ll actually find in the Baakens Valley at 2 Alabaster Street – part of the hip Chicky’s Yard food, drink and entertainment hub which continues to flourish. It’s as rustic a pub as they come with the emphasis on casual and chilled. There are deck-style tables under a bedouin-type tent which always creates a party vibe. The big feature of course are the craft beers – a clutch of them – and you should take time to find the one that blows your froth back. Their signature offering is the house beer – Car Park John amber ale (or CPJ) – made in-house at the brewery and which has established a reputation as “Port Elizabeth’s beer”. It’s a class act with its robust, crisp malt qualities and hint of toffee that creates its own easy-on-the-tongue, distinct taste. CPJ may be what RHBC is known for, but in addition to its artisan associates like Two Rand Man Irish red ale, there is an entire line-up of other thirst-breakers. This is definitely the place to park. THE city is getting crafty. Port Elizabeth has never been quite up to the trend standard that some of its inhabitants might like, but beer lovers certainly have something to be wiping their mouths about these days. It's refreshing, to say the very least, to have a range of completely… November 16, 2014 The Baakens Food Truck Friday started in November last year with only 10 food trucks, two DJs and a great turnout. Today the event is not just a food truck family market, but also a space for crafters to showcase their wares, a platform for local artists to be discovered,… December 15, 2017 Crazy White Boy and Majozi are headlining the second edition of Port Elizabeth open-air concert Valley Vibes in the Baakens Valley tomorrow afternoon. After the success of the first Valley Vibes last September – headlined by December Streets – the organisers Intense Events started work on a new and improved… February 3, 2017