We have parties to mark every other milestone in family life, so why not celebrate the decision to have a vasectomy? That was clearly what one mum thought when she decided to throw her husband a “Balls Voyage” party.  Kimberly D Hemperly, of the US, put all the details on their Facebook page when she and husband Jason told friends they had decided not to have any more children. They have two kids – a boy and a girl. Although grateful for their family, they knew the time had come for him to get the chop. “We have an announcement to make!” Kimberly wrote. “We are thrilled to say we will NOT be adding anymore tiny humans to our family! “My husband is taking one for the team and to celebrate this momentous occasion I felt the need to throw him a little ‘Balls Voyage’ party for his upcoming procedure.” She made her family matching T-shirts. His had “Time to retire the swim team” and the kids had T-shirts with “Swim team survivor”. The cake, yes there was a cake, had “snip, snap” written on it, complete with a tiny gravestone for his swimmers. The excited wife gave her husband a tray of presents including tiny sausages, meatballs, chocolates, bananas and a surgery glove ice-pack full of frozen peas. “We feel like two is plenty for us,” Kimberly said. “We were lucky enough to be blessed with one of each.” Because his wife had undergone two C-sections, he thought it only fair he went under the knife. “He’s very selfless in that way,” she said. Her Facebook post has been liked 65 000 times and shared nearly 50 000 times. – NZ Stuff Murderer makes amends by throwing party, fixing house for granny, 102 The lives of a convicted murderer and a 102-year-old grandmother connected yesterday – despite them having never met – when the St Albans inmate threw her a birthday party after organising for her home to be renovated. Bonga Mountain,… December 8, 2017 ALTHOUGH the Solomons have not yet reached revered milestones like 50 or even 30 years of marriage, as a modern working couple – who recently celebrated their 15th anniversary – they have shared and overcome challenges. Marlon, 41, who is a service manager at Telkom and Noleen, 39, a project… June 4, 2014 Herald Reporter THE Snyman family are set to make a big splash at this year's Spar River Mile, when all seven members take to the water for the 90th edition of the Nelson Mandela Bay swimming festival on February 15 and 16. It will be the second outing at the… January 31, 2014