  President Jacob Zuma has been ordered to personally pay the costs of his failed attempt to stop the release of the State of Capture report by former public protector Thuli Madonsela. Judge Dunstan Mlambo in the High Court in Pretoria stated the president had “clearly acted in flagrant disregard of the duties of the Public Protector”. He described Zuma’s actions as “completely unreasonable” and “grossly remiss”. The application was brought last year in an attempt to halt Madonsela from releasing the report. The landmark judgment could see Zuma having to fork out substantial amounts for legal fees. Mlambo was scathing of Zuma’s persistence forging ahead with the legal action‚ even after a statement he made in his own answering affidavit that if Madonsela’s report was finalised‚ it should be released‚ rendered the entire application baseless. “In my view a simple punitive costs order is not sufficient . . . as the taxpayer will carry that burden. “The conduct of the President requires a much sterner rebuke‚” Mlambo said‚ adding that Zuma’s conduct amounted to an attempt to stymie the Constitutional obligation of the Public Protector’s office. This is a developing story. TimesLIVE The High Court in Pretoria will on Tuesday hear an application by President Jacob Zuma to set aside the remedial action by former public protector Thuli Madonsela on alleged state capture. Madonsela released a report‚ titled State of Capture‚ in November last year concerning allegations of an improper relationship between… October 24, 2017 Former public protector Thuli Madonsela “deliberately leaked” the audio recording of her interview with President Jacob Zuma‚ ANN7 reported on Wednesday morning. The Gupta-owned TV station quoted her saying “as a public protector‚ I made a decision that my interview with the president must be made public”‚ but added she… November 9, 2016 Former public protector Thuli Madonsela has “no further role to play” regarding the State of Capture report and “must step back and allow legal and constitutional processes to unfold unhindered”. The Presidency on Friday said it was “concerned about continuing public statements by … Madonsela on matters relating” to the… November 11, 2016