Festive season danger made worse by drought, with use of open containers, survey reveals As the festive season begins‚ the tragedy of drowning looms over every family spending time near a body of water and even those storing water in open containers during the crippling drought. At the close of each year‚ there are on average 200 drownings in the Western Cape alone‚ with December often accounting for the lion’s share of that number. Now‚ a research team has revealed who is most at risk‚ where and when. It has also come up with the country’s first ever preventative framework. This could possibly lead to new municipal bylaws and other enforcement mechanisms‚ some of which would be related to private pools‚ Western Cape Local Government‚ Environmental Affairs and Development Planning MEC Anton Bredell said. He said the province was concerned about such high death tolls‚ especially when about 40% of victims were younger than 14. This is why the Western Cape government commissioned the South African Medical Research Council‚ along with other stakeholders‚ to conduct the research. The first risk factor‚ according to the report‚ is any public holiday – of which the festive season has many – December 16‚ 25‚ 26 and January 1. The age group most at risk are children under five – and it is not simply pools‚ beaches and rivers that are a threat. Open storage containers are, too. According to Colleen Saunders‚ a research manager at the department of emergency medicine at the University of Cape Town, which forms part of the task team‚ open containers storing water are especially relevant now as water restrictions and potential shortages drive more households to store water. Older children and adults‚ on the other hand‚ are more at risk of drowning in open bodies of water such as dams‚ lagoons‚ rivers and the sea. “When we think of drowning‚ we usually think of oceans and swimming pools‚ but many of these kinds of accidents happen in dams and rivers‚ especially in the Western Cape‚” Saunders said. Bredell said that safety measures around private pools in particular were a challenge. Saunders said the team would thus be motivating for municipal bylaws regulating the use of swimming pool barriers and covers. Also of interest is that males are at higher risk than females across all age groups. The difference is especially wide for adolescents and young adults. For every adolescent or young female who drowns‚ 4.4 males die in the same way. What is also not common knowledge is the risk posed to older people. The over-60s are a group at high risk – possibly because of unrelated health complications like stroke and heart disease. Then there are the non-fatal incidents, which receive far less attention but nonetheless leave victims permanently injured‚ disabled or traumatised. These have a lasting social and economic impact on the province. Bredell said: “I will be taking the report and its recommendations to the forum for mayors with whom I meet on a regular basis.” Saunders said the framework identified seven key objectives for reducing drowning in the province and the task team wanted to make sure the messages received by the public from all the different stakeholders‚ including the NSRI‚ were consistent. Already in the past few weeks, a man of 39 died while trying to cross a river mouth at Still Bay last weekend‚ a boy of 13 drowned trying to save his friend in the lagoon in Kleinmond last month‚ a man aged 21 died at his Christmas function in Lamberts Bay‚ and rip currents at Camps Bay killed another man, also 21. There have also been incidents in other areas of the country. Another drowning has brought to six the number of souls who have perished in the Eastern Cape over a period of a week. On Sunday, Bosani Moni, 30, drowned in the Gamtoos River near Milton in the Hankey district. Moni, from Mthatha, was a seasonal worker on a nearby farm.… December 9, 2014 Drownings, lost kids, booze cast pall on day RESCUE services, police and traffic officers had their work cut out for them on New Year’s Day, with three people drowning in the Eastern Cape, hundreds of litres of alcohol confiscated and several lost children being found on Port Elizabeth’s packed beaches.… January 4, 2016 State mortuaries in the Eastern Cape are overflowing with bodies of drowning, electrocution, suicide, murder and car accident victims as the number of unnatural deaths has sky-rocketed since the start of the festive season. In the Port Elizabeth region, there are 97 unnatural death cases, with 47 of them stabbing… December 29, 2016