AT CONTINENTAL: J J Dowling is general manager of manufacturing Continental Tyre SA (CTSA) has appointed J J Dowling to the position of general manager of manufacturing for its Port Elizabeth production facilities. Dowling, who has returned to the Eastern Cape following a four-year stint as plant manager at Continental Tyre s Alor Setar facility in Malaysia, replaces the Port Elizabeth plant s former general manager, Wayne Brown, who recently joined Continental in the United States. Boasting a long association with CTSA, Dowling began his career with the company as a student studying rubber technology in 1996 CTSA managing director Shaun Uys said: It s fantastic to welcome J J Dowling back to the Continental Tyre SA family, after heading the plant in Malaysia. The tyre industry, and the manufacturing business in general, is extremely competitive and challenging, and we re confident that J J will impart his wealth of experience with the team as we strive for greater efficiencies, productivity, growth and overall sustainability. Dowling is certainly well versed and experienced in all aspects of tyre production, Uys said. After completing his studies in rubber technology, he formally joined the company in 1999 as a curing technologist in the product industrialisation department, and since then [worked in] quality, plant operations and production management. Dowling joined the company s Malaysia operation in 2012 as production manager. He became plant manager there in April 2013 and served in that position until he was recruited back to South Africa at the beginning of this year to run the Bay plant. I m delighted to be back in Port Elizabeth where I grew up, and where my career with Continental started, Dowling said. We have a great team at Continental Tyre SA and I look forward to continuing this journey with them as we focus on maximising our potential, and delivering the highest standards of product quality and efficiency for the company. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share