Expert predicts slowdown in inflation after drought will drive growth for SA The good news is that food price inflation should start to slow down through the year. This is according to economist Dawie Roodt, who delivered a wide-ranging presentation on the national and international economic outlook for this year at a packed NMMU Business School auditorium in Port Elizabeth yesterday. Roodt was the dynamic and frequently humorous guest speaker at the event, jointly hosted by the Business School and the Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber. Referring specifically to the rate or frequency of food price increases, which he predicted would begin slowing as a result of the improvement in weather conditions, Roodt added a forecast of a 1.2% growth in the national economy to his basket of good news items for the year. Tempering his outlook on growth, however, he said he expected the recovery of the agricultural sector after last year s drought to account for a significant portion of his growth forecast for the year. Citing an annual population growth of 1.6% and unemployment which affected between seven and nine million people, among other factors, he said his forecasted growth was totally inadequate for the country. South Africa needed growth rates of between 4% and 5% to put it back onto a solid economic footing, Roodt said. He expected growth in Europe during the year to be lacklustre, with a looming crisis in Italy. Growth in Japan would be flat and he forecast a further slowdown in the Chinese economy. He believed global commodity prices would still stay low. Roodt said he believed developments like Donald Trump s shock US election victory and the Brexit vote were symptomatic of a societal move away from the class of professional bureaucrats and career politicians that arose around the world after World War 2. [They] have legislated the world . . . you never needed licences for this, that and everything, as you do these days. People are gatvol. For South Africa, he said a weakened ANC, President Jacob Zuma s succession, a toothless Cosatu and the SACP in the wilderness, were topics and developments to monitor going forward. He named improving government efficiency and productivity and decreasing its size, the eradication of corruption, the privatisation of costly parastatals, world-class skills development and the scrapping of anti-job legislation as solutions to the country s economic challenges. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share