CHAMPION GRIN: Erik van Rooyen celebrates winning the Eye of Africa PGA Championship at the Eye of Africa Signature Golf Estate in Johannesburg yesterday Picture: GALLO IMAGES Erik van Rooyen hit his approach to inside a foot in the first hole of a three-way playoff yesterday to set himself up for a birdie and victory in the R1.5-million Eye of Africa PGA Championship. He finished regulation play with a birdie on 18 too, to finish on 16-under for the tournament together with Dylan Frittelli and Makhetha Mazibuko, who narrowly missed a par-putt on 18 in regulation, which would have given him the victory. Last year s runner-up, Dean Burmester, finished fourth after a round of one-over 73. The 18th is not an easy hole, Van Rooyen said. I didn t really plan to stiff it with my second in the playoff. My plan was to hit where I hit it in regulation, because that s just the middle of the green. You need to give yourself a chance, especially after I saw where Makhetha hit his ball in the bunker. I knew par might have a chance. But my approach drew back so nicely and it almost went in. It was fantastic. The victory was the first in his Sunshine Tour career, which stretches back to 2013 when he gained his card at the Qualifying School. It s hard to describe, Van Rooyen said of his feelings after the win. I ve worked really hard with a big group of people sports psychologists, a trainer, a swing coach, whatever for the last 10 or 15 years, and to finally get the win . . . I ve been there a few times in the last few years that I ve been on the Sunshine Tour, and I think today I really held my composure nicely. I think that s where I slipped up in the past. But today, I got it done and now the emotions are boiling over a little. The fact of the matter was that he kept his composure throughout the tournament, rather than just in the final round. Behind Van Rooyen, Mazibuko came agonisingly close to pulling off what would have been an amazing victory. A product of the SA Golf Development Board s efforts in the Free State, and then of the Ernie Els &amp; Fancourt Foundation, and latterly the Sunshine Tour s Gary Player Class of 2017 initiative, his game withstood the rigours of the week as he announced himself as someone who will break through soon. Likewise Frittelli, who played so well over the weekend, only to see his chances of winning evaporate with a poor tee shot on the playoff hole. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share