OVER ARM: Alexander Road s Jarryd Tait sends a delivery down to Victoria Park s Bradley Meier Picture: EUGENE COETZEE Victoria Park High School and Alexander Road High met in their cricket fixtures at the weekend. Honours were shared as both schools managed to secure two wins out of four matches played. In the U14A match, Alex were restricted to 106 all out. Asemahle Mbali picked up an impressive five-wicket haul. Unfortunately, it all fell apart in the batting department with VP being bowled out for a mere 56 runs, losing by 50 runs. The U15A match was very competitive with both teams controlling portions of the game. VP batted first and scored 140. Brandon van der Linde had a good innings of 61 including 11 fours and a six. This was his third consecutive half-century since being selected for this team, with previous scores of 51 and 65. His average is 59. Alex were then bowled out for 132 runs in a tense finish. Theo Magongo and Zinedine de Kock picked up two wickets each. Captain Josh Koen was the chief destroyer, returning figures of three wickets for just 29 runs to help VP win by eight runs. The VP U19B side had a fine win against Alex. Alex scored a competitive 165/9. VP reached that total in the 30th over. All the boys played well in all departments. Shakoor Johaar was economical in the middle overs with some quality leg spin. Dawie Barnard, playing in his first game for VP this season, was the star performer in the field, snatching three catches. The wickets were shared evenly between the bowlers. Opening batsman Charlton Bowers scored a solid and intelligent 45 not out, while J P van Vuuren turned the game in VP s favour by scoring a quick 65 runs to help VP win by three wickets. The VP U19A side were restricted to 146 all out. Buhle Cewu (35) and Jordan Dawson (27) showed grit and determination to recover from seven wickets down fairly early on in the game. Alex passed the total with seven wickets down. Jordan Dawson took 2/31 as VP lost by three wickets. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share