JOB DONE: Pearson s Raeez Harrison celebrates after taking a wicket, watched by Rondebosch s Lehan Botha Picture: JUDY DE VEGA PE school play nine matches with mixed fortunes Pearson&#8217;s cricket teams enjoyed a good weekend with a total of nine matches played. On Friday, the Pearson first team took on traditional Cape Town powerhouse Rondebosch in a 50-over match. After winning the toss and electing to field, the Pearson bowlers were in top form as they picked up early wickets by way of superb, disciplined bowling. Pearson new ball bowler Deleon Simons picked up 2/11 in his opening spell of seven overs and was well supported by Raeez Harrison, who returned figures of 2/31 in seven overs as Rondebosch slumped to 51/6 in the 23rd over. Just before the drinks break at 25 overs, the Pearson fielding unit made a critical mistake, missing an easy run-out opportunity, which could have taken the score to 53/7 at the break. The Rondebosch batters capitalised on the error and added 51 runs for the seventh wicket. Pearson captain Keeran Forbes then bowled a superb spell of offspin and returned figures of 2/15 in his 10 overs, as Rondebosch were eventually all out for a sporty 145. Lehan Botha was the top-scorer for Rondebosch with a well-played 62 off 122 balls. After lunch, the Pearson batters got off to the worst possible start and found themselves in desperate trouble at 6/3. Captain Forbes led from the front with a fighting 42 off 90 balls. His efforts were, however, not enough as the Pearson team fell 27 runs short of their target. On Saturday, the team proved too strong as they beat DF Malherbe by five wickets, in a 50-over match played at DF. Bowling first, Forbes was again in great form, as he took 5/26 as DF Malherbe were all out for a mere 74 in difficult batting conditions. The Pearson batsman wasted no time as they knocked off the runs in under 10 overs. Cole Nel top-scored for his team with a quick-fire 35 off 22 balls. In other Saturday matches, the Pearson U14As produced an excellent 193-run victory over Framesby. Kyle Burgess scored 107 to help his team to an emphatic win. On Sunday, the Pearson U14A, U15A and second teams entertained Rondebosch in 50-over matches in Summerstrand. The Pearson seconds were the pick of the teams with a one-wicket win over their counterparts. The U14As went down by 83 runs and the U15As by 143 runs. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share