ON THE RISE: An ecstatic Christo Lamprecht, 16, holds the 45kg trophy after becoming the youngest winner of the prestigious Sanlam SA Amateur Championship when he defeated Caylum Boon in the 36-hole final at the Humewood Golf Club Picture: MICHAEL SHEEHAN Louis Oosthuizen Junior Academy prodigy Christo Lamprecht produced a careerdefining performance at the Humewood Golf Club to become the youngest Sanlam South African Amateur champion in the 110-year history of the premier international championship on Friday. At 16 years and 25 days, the Southern Cape teenager surpassed the record set by Thriston Lawrence in 2013 (16 years, two months and 23 days old) when he defeated fellow George golfer Caylum Boon 7 and 6 in the 36-hole final. This is all a little unreal right now, the delighted Pinnacle Point golfer said. I got knocked out in the first round in my first SA Amateur last year. Now I am the winner, and the youngest champion, too. I can t even describe how I feel. This is huge. Lamprecht showed maturity beyond his years and the composure of a true champion as he plotted his way into the final, never trailing in a single match after he qualified for the match play stage. He knocked out Loris Schuepbah, from Switzerland, in round one, Andre Nel in the second round and Garrick Higgo in round three, as well as his Thursday quarterfinal victory against Yashas Chandra, from the Indian Golf Union s Gentlemen Squad, and semifinal win against Dylan Kok. The final match against Boon was no different, as Lamprecht executed a proven game plan to take control. My game plan in all my matches was to keep the ball in play and to try to take the lead as early as possible, Lamprecht, who opened with six straight pars on the final day, said. I wanted to put my opponent on the back foot. Tomorrow the country s top-ranked junior will don the green and gold for the first time alongside Higgo, Luca Filippi and Jayden Schaper in the SA Junior team at the international African Amateur Championship at Leopard Creek. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share