ON A CHARGE: Andisa Ntsila, of the Southern Kings, during the Super Rugby match between the Southern Kings and the Jaguares Picture: GALLO IMAGES Appeal to players after opening Super Rugby loss to Jaguares Concerned Southern Kings head coach Deon Davids has appealed to his team to cut out simple and costly errors after they slumped to a 39-26 defeat in their opening Super Rugby match. A small crowd of 2 226 fans arrived at the Nelson Mandala Bay Stadium hoping the Kings could repeat their 29-22 victory over the Jaguares in the corresponding fixture last year. At half time the Jaguares held a slender seven-point advantage, but they powered out of sight and into a 39-12 lead after 56 minutes. The Kings scored two second-half tries through Makazole Mapimpi and Luzuko Vulindlu, but never managed get within striking distance of their opponents. The volatile Jaguares outfit, who often operate off a short fuse, ended the game with 13 players after Felipe Ezcurra and Matias Moroni were yellow carded by referee Jaco Peyper. After half time we conceded two simple tries from simple errors, Davids said. They were not structured tries that the Jaguares scored. They actually scored from our mistakes. I think we started well. The Kings did some good things at the start and also towards the end. It is simple. You can t play rugby without the ball and our lineouts, scrums and set pieces were not as good as they could be. The Kings need to ensure that we get quality ball from our set pieces and to make sure that whenever we kick the ball we apply good pressure, especially when it is a contestable kick. In the first half, we played too much rugby in our territory and that made it easy for them to play from turnovers and put us under pressure. Davids said he could not fault the commitment of his team, despite their opening defeat. One thing that is important in rugby is that you have to have continuity, because that builds confidence and gives your team a sense of self-belief, Davids said. At some points, we struggled with that continuity and that influenced our rhythm. As the competition goes on, and touch wood we don t have many injuries, we can build on the positives. Jaguares fullback Joaquin Tuculet, one of several internationals in the their lineup, was voted man of the match. It was important to start the season with a victory and this result makes up for our loss here last year, Tuculet said. I believe we will be more patient in our second season of Super Rugby and now look forward to facing the Stormers in Cape Town. The Kings began promisingly and the accurate boot of flyhalf Lionel Cronje put the hosts 12-10 ahead midway through the opening half. However, the Jaguares responded with three penalties of their own to lead by seven points at half time. The Kings face the Sunwolves in Singapore on Saturday in their second match of the competition. The scorers: Southern Kings 26: Tries: Makazole Mapimpi, Luzuko Vulindlu. Conversions: Lionel Cronje (2). Penalties: Cronje (4). Jaguares 39:Tries: Gonzalo Bertranou, Leonardo Senatore, Lucas Noguera. Conversions: Joaquin Diaz Bonilla, Santiago Gonzalez Iglesias (2). Penalties: Joaquin Diaz Bonilla (3), Santiago Gonzalez Iglesias (3). Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share