Minister Nomvula Mokonyane Picture: KEVIN SUTHERLAND / SUNDAY TIMES. Central Energy Fund chairman Luvo Makasi the man accused of influencing the awarding and payment of contracts in the Department of Water and Sanitation is considering taking legal action against those making allegations that he had a romantic relationship with Nomvula Mokonyane. Makasi on Tuesday spoke about his relationship with the department and its Minister Mokonyane claiming that he had nothing but a professional relationship with both and had provided legal services to a number of water boards. Makasi is also an attorney and director at law firm Boqwana Burns Inc which he said had been providing legal advice. He also denied allegations that he had a romantic relationship with Mokonyane. &#8220;I will reiterate that I have a professional relationship with the department of water and sanitation and the Honourable Minister by virtue of my position as an attorney and legal advisor &#8221; Makasi said. &#8220;In that context I have on a number of occasions officially met and engaged with the Minister deputy minister and other officials of the department of water and sanitation in respect of issues related to the department&#8217;s mandate.&#8221; Earlier this month Economic Freedom Fighters chief whip Floyd Shivambu wrote to Mokonyane requesting that she respond to the allegations that Makasi was responsible for approving payments for contracts in the department despite him not being an employee. Shivambu put eight questions to Mokonyane about whether she knew Makasi whether she had referred any queries about payment for contracts to him and whether the department had been taken to court over non-payment of contracts. He asked whether the minister had a personal relationship with Makasi which allowed him to interfere with operations in her department. Mokonyane has also denied the allegations. Makasi on Tuesday claimed that the allegations were intended to &#8220;malign and discredit&#8221; himself and the department. &#8211; TMG Digital/BusinessLIVE Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share