WINNING FORMULA: Imran Tahir is part of South Africa s success story Picture: REUTERS If South Africa s players feel as if they have been shot in this movie before when they take to Seddon Park in Hamilton tomorrow to play New Zealand in the fourth one-day international that is because they have been. The first match of the series was played there on February 19 with the fourth scheduled for Napier. But the latter game was moved because of concerns over Napier s outfield which is to undergo extensive rehabilitation in the wake of an ODI there on February 1 being abandoned because of the effects of poor drainage. The fact that the Proteas won the first ODI by four wickets with a ball remaining might make South Africans think their team who lead the series 2-1 have the advantage as they bid to clinch the rubber tomorrow. Closer to the truth is that the pitch for the first ODI spent longer than usual under the covers because of rain and consequently offered more movement off the seam than usual. And that played into the hands of South Africa s pace attack. Rain has been forecast for today in Hamilton but tomorrow s weather is predicted as dr y. Unsurprisingly the Kiwis are keeping a close eye on the weather and its likely influence on the conditions. We don t know what the surface is going to be like but if it is anything like last time then batting is going to be hard New Zealand allrounder Mitchell Santner said. The uncertainty seemed to set Santner s mind wandering in hopeful directions. If it s going to spin, we ve got very good spin bowling options but they ve got [legspinner Imran) Tahir and [left-arm wrist spinner Tabraiz] Shamsi that can do a job as well he said. It s about not allowing ourselves to get flustered and trying to take the game as deep as possible. The game has indeed been taken deep in two of the matches with the teams each winning one. In the other in Wellington last Saturday South Africa dismissed the home side for 112 to win by 159 runs on another seaming pitch. So it is not difficult to understand why the New Zealanders are keen on a pitch that even though they have Trent Boult and Tim Southee in their ranks does not help South Africa s quicks. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share