GEARING UP: Eben Etzebeth, left, Stormers head coach Robbie Fleck and Siya Kolisi during their media conference yesterday ahead of their Super Rugby opener against the Bulls this weekend Picture: GALLO IMAGES The Stormers will go into the Super Rugby season with one captain in an attempt to build an identity around a single personality rather than the co-captain system they used last year. But coach Robbie Fleck would not reveal the name of his skipper yesterday saying the rest of the squad had not yet been informed of the decision. It was telling though that he was flanked by decorated Bok lock Eben Etzebeth and Bok flank Siya Kolisi. Clearly, one of the two will be captain and the other vice-captain. I did the co-captains last year because we had a young group Fleck said, referring to Juan de Jongh and Frans Malherbe. But chatting to senior players there was a feeling that we need one figurehead and a vice-captain, and we have a leadership group consisting of seven guys. It was a difficult process to settle on one captain but a good one to go through because there are some good leaders coming through. Kolisi is the favourite to captain the side, with Etzebeth providing support as his sergeant-major to enforce the tough love when needed. The Stormers take on the Bulls in their Super Rugby opener at Newlands this weekend and there is an air of confidence after a good pre-season that yielded three wins against the Cheetahs SWD Eagles and Lions. Often results in pre-season games are dismissed, but Kolisi was adamant that there was something to be gained from a positive scoreboard. Winning pre-season games does create a winning culture which is the most important thing Kolisi said. It gives the younger players a winning feeling and builds confidence. It s much easier for young players to come into a side that has been winning. The Stormers have focused on better fitness and skills but they have also placed an emphasis on their breakdown work and having more players on their feet at all times during the game. With five matches against New Zealand teams this year the Stormers have to have more men on their feet to compete with the NZ teams high-tempo style. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share