The Southern Kings team to play the Jaguares today is, back: Malcolm Jaer, Schalk van der Merwe, Ross Geldenhuys, Chris Heiberg, Rudi van Rooyen, Andisa Ntsila, Masixole Banda. Middle: Luzuko Vulindlu, Michael Willemse, Chrysander Botha, Waylon Murray, Tyler Paul, Irne Herbst, Mzwanele Zito, Ruaan Lerm, Louis Schreuder, Berton Klaasen, Makazole Mapimpi. Front: Charl Crous, chief operating officer, Zingi Hela, manager, Chris Cloete, Barend Pieterse, forwards coach, Lionel Cronje, Deon Davids, head coach, Schalk Ferreira, captain, Vuyo Zangqa, backline coach, Stefan Willemse, Martin Bezuidenhout, David Williams, attack coach Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Discipline is key against Jaguares today, coach says Cool heads will be needed in the heat of battle when the Southern Kings face a Jaguares outfit who often operate on a short fuse and are prone to lapses in discipline. The Kings, thanks to an extensive pre-season and a squad bolstered by new signings, plan to hit the ground running at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium today (kick-off 5.15pm). Included in the Kings starting lineup are four new Super Rugby caps in wing MakazoleMapimpi, centre Berton Klaasen and the lock pairing of Irne Herbst and Mzwanele Zito. Last year the Kings beat the Argentine outfit 29-22 after the Jaguares were left with 12men when New Zealand referee Nick Briant dished out two red cards and a yellow. It is going to be very important for us to ensure that we are sound technically and that we also have good discipline on thefield, Kings head coach Deon Davids said. We will put ourselves under huge pressure if we concede yellow or red cards and I think that is the case for both teams. We cannot afford that happening. That display of ill-discipline still lingers int he Jaguares camp, and their head coach Raul Perez mentioned it ahead of the clash. When we received our fixtures we saw that the first match was against the Kings and we started our first training session talking about discipline. It is a good opportunity to take revenge for last year s match, Perez said. This time we will try to be more disciplined than in the last game. Our first objective this season is to go match by match. Now we are focused on the Kings. The big aim this year is to play better week by week in the tournament . World Rugby have introduced strict penalties for making contact with the head of an opposition player this season. All contact with a player s head, whether accidental or deliberate, will be punishable as part of a zero-tolerance campaign to limit injuries and ensure the head is a no-go area . Davids said: There is a huge emphasis in the competition this year on making the game safer and ensuring that players adhere to the rules. He stressed the importance of beginning the Kings campaign on a winning note. For us, it is important to go out there full of confidence in ourselves and what we can bring. We understand that we are playing against a quality side. The Jaguares will come out stronger and they will have learned a lot of lessons last year from their first year in the competition. They will come back and want to prove they can be one of the better sides in the competition. The Jaguares will want to get out of the starting blocks very quickly. It is an important game for them as well, so we are expecting a tough match. After the ill-tempered showing in Port Elizabeth,the Jaguares exacted their revenge with a crushing 73-27 win in the return match in Buenos Aires. Today s teams: Southern Kings: Chrysander Botha, Makazole Mapimpi, Berton Klaasen, Waylon Murray, Malcolm Jaer, Lionel Cronje, Louis Schreuder, Ruaan Lerm, Stefan Willemse, Andisa Ntsila, Mzwanele Zito, Irne Herbst, Ross Geldenhuys, Michael Willemse, Schalk Ferreira (captain). Replacements: Martin Bezuidenhout, Schalk van der Merwe, Chris Heiberg, Tyler Paul, Chris Cloete, Rudi van Rooyen,Masixole Banda, Luzuko Vulindlu. Jaguares: Joaqu n Tuculet, Mat as Orlando, Mat as Moroni, Jer nimo de la Fuente, Santiago Cordero, Joaqu n D azBonilla, Gonzalo Bertranou, Leonardo Senatore, Pablo Matera, Tom s Lezana, Mat as Alemanno, Guido Petti, Felipe Arregui, Agust n Creevy (captain), Lucas Noguera Paz. Replacements: Juli n Montoya, Santiago Garc a Botta,Cristian Bartoloni, Marcos Kremer, 20 Rodrigo B ez, Felipe Ezcurra, Santiago Gonz lez Iglesias, Ramiro Moyano. Referee: Jaco Peyper. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share