CELEBRATING SUCCESS: Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University Business School director Dr Randall Jonas, left, with Graduate School director Professor Cecil Arnolds and faculty members Professor Kobus Jonker and Dorrington Giyose, is celebrating the Port Elizabeth-based institution s new international accreditation Picture: Supplied Business School earns international recognition Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University s Business School in Port Elizabeth has opened its 2017 account with a hat-trick of new developments, including a prestigious international accreditation of its Master of Business Administration (MBA) programme. The Business School, which launched into the new year with the appointment of new director Dr Randall Jonas, announced two more developments yesterday. Both of them, according to Jonas, will not only significantly increase the prestige of the Bay institution, but also play an important role in attracting more national and international enrolments. Going global, the school announced that it had broken ground after gaining accreditation from the international Association of MBAs which effectively ranks the institution among the top 2% of business schools in 70 countries for its flagship MBA programmes. The Association of MBAs is the impartial authority on postgraduate management education. The school was also recently named as the sixth-best business school in South Africa through Eduniversal s international business school rankings for South Africa. After a rigorous assessment process following much dedication and hard work by our faculty on a project that has been in the making for the whole of last year, we are pleased to announce admission to the Association of MBAs [AMBA], Jonas said. We are pleased to join a super league of the top 2% of business schools assessed and accredited by AMBA in 70 countries. He said the school, in respect of its now internationally accredited MBA programmes, enjoyed the largest footprint in the country as its programmes were offered in Port Elizabeth, East London, Durban, Cape Town and Centurion in Gauteng. The school also achieved a top position in the latest Eduniversal ranking of the best business schools. Headquartered in France, Eduniversal is a global ranking and rating agency specialising in higher education, evaluating academic institutions and programmes. The agency released rankings [last month] for the 2016 year. Overall, we ranked sixth out of 19 South African business schools, the Business School s Graduate School director, Professor Cecil Arnolds, said. This represents an independent assessment of our standing among business schools worldwide. Jonas said the accreditation illustrated the school s education standards and strategic direction and confirmed its programmes were aligned to some of the world s best. What is required is business education and programmes aligned to ethical and responsible entrepreneurship, corporate responsibility, sustainability, innovation and strategy, Jonas said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share