Eastern Cape Social Development MEC Nancy Sihlwayi Picture: Brian Witbooi Bhisho boss Stanley Khanyile has broken his silence over what he termed his ill treatment at the hands of MEC Nancy Sihlwayi. Khanyile, the Eastern Cape Department of Social Development HoD, has written to Premier Phumulo Masualle complaining about Sihlwayi, saying her very abusive language was undermining his authority as an accounting officer. I wish to bring to the attention of the honourable premier a formal complaint on ill-treatment that I am experiencing in the manner that the honourable member of the executive council is treating me at work, Khanyile wrote in the letter to Masualle dated January 11 2017. I regard this complaint as a formal referral to the employer pertaining to issues of interference with administration, unfair labour practice which is bordering on constructive dismissal and victimisation. Khanyile further said he had received correspondence that contains very abusive language . A series of written exchanges between Sihlwayi and Khanyile paints a picture of a broken relationship between the two. In a letter from October last year, Sihlwayi accused Khanyile of not adhering to departmental policies and procedures. In the letter directed to Khanyile, Sihlwayi said she was placing on hold all advertisements and awarding of tenders by the department which fell in the R1-million and above bracket. This decision is informed by huge gaps and defects that have been observed on the non-compliance of this process with department procedures, policies and procedures on the side of your office, Sihlwayi said. Then again on November 2, Sihlwayi wrote another letter to Khanyile regarding his conduct which may be seen as insubordination, neglect and dereliction of duties . She also asked why work was not being given to the Ernest Malgas Centre, a rehab facility for recovering drug addicts, and why there had been a failure to implement departmental policy directives. Khanyile responded by saying the department could not have given the work to the centre as that would have exposed you and the department not only to serious litigation challenges but also to possibility of an audit query . It is not clear what the work was or why Sihlwayi could have faced litigation. On December 21, Sihlwayi wrote another letter, this time withdrawing financial delegation from Khanyile. That was the last straw and he then wrote to Masualle s office on January 11. Contacted for comment this week, Masualle s spokesman, Sonwabo Mbananga, said the premier would attend to the matter. Mr Stanley Khanyile remains the HoD of the Eastern Cape Department of Social Development, he said. While the matter of the working relationship between Khanyile and MEC Sihlwayi has come to the attention of the premier, he and MEC Sihlwayi have yet to meet on the allegations by HoD Khanyile. Mbananga said Masualle would allow both sides a chance to talk in an effort to establish the facts. After which the premier will follow due processes as required to resolve the matter. Yesterday Khanyile confirmed writing a letter to the premier, but did not want to comment further. Sihlwayi s spokesman, Mzukisi Solani, said they would leave it to the premier s office to respond. Neither Khanyile nor Sihlwayi are strangers to controversy. In 2014, the Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) placed Khanyile, who was head at the time, on precautionary suspension. Cogta MEC Fikile Xasa said that Khanyile had been suspended as he was being investigated in the sex-for-jobs scandal. He was later cleared. Meanwhile, in 2015, former social development official Masiza Mazizi was hauled over the coals after ignoring an instruction, allegedly from Sihlwayi, not to invite white children to a statesponsored youth event. Sihlwayi s office wrote to him asking him to explain why he had ignored the instruction that white children were not to be invited. Sihlwayi also recently came in for scathing criticism from her own party for her insensitive handling of the Life Esidimeni frail care crisis in Port Elizabeth. She decided last year not to renew Life Esidimeni s contract to run the only two fully state-funded frail care centres in the city and instead planned to move the 239 residents to private homes run by NGOs. But this plan was halted on Thursday by Masualle. Health ombudsman Professor Malegapuru Makgoba found last month that the Gauteng Health Department had been negligent when it moved 1 900 patients from Life Healthcare facilities to private homes run by unlicensed NGOs, calling the plan reckless, unwise and flawed. He found the Gauteng move had led to the death of at least 94 patients. But on the very day the ombudsman s report was released, Sihlwayi said some of the people in the PE frail care centres were ill and she was not going to pay for ill people. They are even giving them oxygen that my department must pay for. My budget isn t for oxygen. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share