EC provincial secretary Oscar Mabuyane Picture: THEO JEPTHA. Senior SACP leaders in the Eastern Cape have dumped premier Phumulo Masualle in favour of ANC provincial secretary Oscar Mabuyane as the next ANC provincial chairman. This is significant because Masualle is a senior leader of the SACP and also sits on its central committee. This comes as the race towards the ANC provincial elective conference in June gains momentum. Masualle s long-time allies, including SACP provincial secretary Xolile Nqatha, Mandla Makupula who is also MEC for Education and SACP provincial chairman Zolile Mrara had a meeting with Mabuyane last week to express their disappointment over Masualle s handling of both government and ANC matters. Also at the meeting was Cosatu provincial secretary Xolani Malamulela. It is understood that the purpose of the meeting was to gauge Mabuyane s appetite for the top job and also for the communist party leaders to throw their weight behind his campaign. His very own comrades from the communist party are angry at Phumulo to a point they are now willing to go all out and campaign against him, a senior alliance leader, who is privy to the developments, said. The latest developments also come as the ANC s biggest region and second biggest in the country, OR Tambo, is said to have thrown its weight behind Mabuyane following its extended Regional Executive Committee (REC) meeting over the weekend. Insiders said the region would back Mabuyane as party provincial chairman and regional secretary Lulama Ngcukaitobi as provincial secretary. Sarah Baartman regional chairman Mlungisi Mvoko is being touted as Mabuyane s possible deputy. Nqatha would neither confirm nor deny that they were pushing Mabuyane to replace Masualle. It is an ANC process to discuss and elect their own leaders as an independent formation within the alliance, he said. Malamulela denied attending the meeting with Mabuyane but said as Cosatu they were unhappy with the current ANC provincial leadership. Contacted for comment yesterday, Mabuyane lashed out at the OR Tambo REC for discussing the matter. Our structures must not put the cart before the horse. The time to lobby and nominate will come, he said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share