Guests, from left, Suliwe Sihlwayi, Vuyo Tshingila, and Eva-Marie Bloom Stromattended Johan Bloom&#8217;s &#8216;Reflective Identities&#8217; at Galerie Noko Picture: Brian Witbooi Gqwesh Maqina, left, and Sisa and MandiseTabata at Galerie Noko for &#8216;Reflective Identities&#8217; Picture: Brian Witbooi Marchelle and Frank Frolick a Valentine&#8217;s dinner at VW People&#8217;s Pavillion Picture: Isozama Productions From left, Mervin Goliath, Deidre Ambraal and Monique Petersen at the Idols Auditions held at the Boardwalk Picture: Brian Witbooi Singing hopefuls, from left, Ceano Zealand, Che Harmse, Thandokazi Hermanus, Mziyanda Ntozini and Lwandle Ncebakazi ausitioned for Idols Season 13 at the Boardwal Picture: Brian Witbooi Mona-Lisa Sam, Ntonbi Zini, Hope Jacobs and Meagan Vitealingum at the Idols Auditions held at the Boardwalk Picture: Brian Witbooi Lelethu Mahambehlala, left, Mxolisi Nyezwa, and Nobesuthu Rayi at the PE Opera House&#8217;s Poetry Tuesday session Picture: supplied Leryn and Luven Vasi attend a Valentine&#8217;s Day gala dinner at the VW People&#8217;s Pavillion Picture: Isozama Productions Deon Jordaan, Elgene Fanton, Luchen and Carmen Samuels at the Eastern Cape Super 12 rugby game at New Brighton Oval Picture: Brian Witbooi Saneshrih Coetzee and Zizipho Badi at the Eastern Cape Super 12 rugby game at the New Brighton Oval Picture: Brian Witbooi George Meko and wife, Linda Meko at the Garden Court last Sunday for the Health and Well-being Seminar Picture: Londeka Dlamini Mafa Bavuma and wife Kuhle attend the Health abd Wellbeing Seminar at Garden Court Picture: Londeka Dlamini Hello darlings, it s your favourite gossip gal again, ready to give you your weekly dose of umgosi. My week of social shenanigans started off early when I attended the launch of Mr PE Ubermann at Coast at the Boardwalk last Wednesday morning. Roland Gaspar was his usual funny self as he MC d the event. Buli G, Michelle Brown and Gail Brown (no, these two are not related!) were also in attendance. I m not sure if I should have taken a little offence or not, but Roland kept referring to the free food, telling people not to lose focus because there would be free breakfast afterwards. People laughed but I didn t because I was rather famished, having purposefully missed breakfast at home knowing I was going to eat at this event. Former Miss Port Elizabeth Valene Sampson looked stunning draped in Jenni Gault Jewellery. I don t know how she keeps her body in such good shape. Share the deets girl, share. Last Friday night I went to Lhu s Place in Kwanobuhle. The real cuties only started showing up after midnight, but the music was good and I shook what my mama gave me to the latest house tracks. It was not as full as it usually is but I suppose people were saving their cents for Saturday. Tuesday might have been one of the glummest days for singletons like myself, but thank goodness there are men out there who know how to bake, because I received a glitter-sprinkled cupcake with a little heart on it. Anywhoo, enough about that. Late on Tuesday, I went to the Boardwalk to listen to the Caribbean sounds of R &amp; B star Judy Boucher and company. She still sounded like the original Judy Boucher, only minus the hairstyle we all remember. It was quite a trip down memory lane! I overheard Mandla Madwara, our former mayoral hopeful, repeatedly asking who Skinnerbek was. I m not sure what he was planning to do that he didn t want people to see. Mr Shakes created a great vibe as the MC and Alistair Izobell and his band from Cape Town gave such an energetic performance they had people up on their feet dancing. Until next time darlings, ciao! Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share