HIGH-RISK: Luca Dalla-Vecchia, 22, wake-boards at the North End Lake, which has been found to contain dangerously polluted water Picture: FREDLIN ADRIAAN PE loses millions as SA champs moved because of health warning Port Elizabeth will miss out on a multimillion-rand economic boost after a national swimming tournament was moved to Jeffreys Bay as the North End Lake failed to meet swimming standards. The 2017 South African Open Water Swimming Nationals would have been a first for the city and could have attracted more than 300 swimmers from across the country. But the lucrative tournament will instead be held at the Marina Martinique lake, starting on March 4. The blow is attributed to faecal coliforms and E.coli bacteria levels in the North End Lake. An unsafe level of 800/100ml was recorded about two weeks ago, when the E.coli bacteria count should have been below 50/100ml. Zsports Events owner Michael Zoetmulder said a delay in the treatment of the lake during the Christmas holidays had caused the high recording. He sits on the local organising committee for the 2017 South African Open Water Swimming Nationals. The delay appears to have had a negative impact on the current water quality levels and the committee felt time just wasn t on our side to ensure international levels could be met in time for the championships, he said. The bio-remediation of the lake is being carried out by the Mandela Bay Development Agency (MBDA) through service provider Rhino Water. But the agency took control of the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium only on January 1. MBDA spokesman Luvuyo Bangazi said: A significant effort in bio-remedial work has already been undertaken, with promising signs of success. It is unfortunate that the recent test results were not up to the standards set by Swim SA. However, this does not mean the standards would not have been met closer to the targeted event date. Nelson Mandela Bay Aquatics president Tony Stottelaar disagreed. He said there was no guarantee that the water would have been safe. We are hoping, though, that the treatment of the lake will continue and stabilise so that we run our local open events [there] and secure [future] bids. He said the delay in treatment was unfortunate. The faecal E.coli in the water is not according to the [specifications] of the Department of Water Affairs. People could have fallen ill and possibly died. We cannot . . . risk having sick athletes. Port Elizabeth tourism consultant Peter Myles said the loss would have a significant impact on the local economy. Each swimmer would be accompanied by at least one other person a considered estimate would be that at least 600 people would be staying overnight for five nights, he said. While it makes a difference where people would be booked, either in hotels or in self-catering establishments, the average spend on anyone staying at a hotel would be R1 500 per day. Comparing the event to the Ironman and KwaZulu-Natal s Midmar Mile, Myles said the potential media coverage would have played an important role for the local economy. Any exciting event shown on TV has a direct economic impact as well as the exposure in media which could be worth R50-million alone, he said. The media coverage for this event could have been at least R10-million. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share