WHERE IT ALL BEGAN: The advert that was placed online for the sale of the Mercedes-Benz CLK Four arrested after PE beachfront deal turns into bizarre hijacking It all started with a simple pre-arranged online car sale but there was an armed man in the boot, the buyer became a hijacking suspect and was assaulted, and a Good Samaritan taxi driver who intervened was shot at and his tyres slashed. In a bizarre string of violent events which even has police investigators scratching their heads four people were arrested after the intended sale of a Mercedes-Benz unravelled when it turned into an alleged hijacking in Port Elizabeth on Monday. Police believe the supposed car buyer, who gave his name as Oscar, tried to hijack Firdous Carloo, 30, who was selling her 2002 Mercedes- Benz CLK which she had advertised on a national advertising website for R85 000. However, unbeknown to the alleged hijacker, Firdous s father, armed with a gun, was hiding in the boot of the car when the rendezvous to make the sale took place at the Hobie Beach car park in Summerstrand. It has since emerged that the alleged hijacker s name is actually Timoteus Timothy Heita, 43, a Namibian national. He was arrested along with Firdous s father, Mogomat, 58, and two relatives Ismael Ibrahim and Maahir Carloo who came to Mogomat and his daughter s assistance and allegedly assaulted the suspect. While Ibrahim and Maahir appeared in court yesterday, Mogomat and Heita are still in custody and due to appear in the same court today. Before Monday afternoon s meeting at Hobie Beach, an armed Mogomat hid in the boot of the Mercedes as a security measure. Questioned by police about this, he claimed he had a strange feeling about the imminent deal. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said Firdous and Heita met at the car park and went for a test drive. The buyer [Heita] was supposedly happy with the vehicle and wanted to arrange a cash payment, Naidu said. According to [Firdous s] statement, he [Heita] phoned someone while in the passenger seat and arranged to meet them at the King s Court car park in Buffelsfontein Road for payment [for the car]. She said while they were driving in Beach Road, Heita told Firdous he wanted to pay in Namibian dollars, which she declined, saying she wanted payment in rands. It was then that Heita allegedly drew a knife and threatened Firdous. Naidu said Firdous s father, who was still in the boot of the car, heard what was happening, pushed the back seats out and climbed into the car. He confronted the passenger and this led to a scuffle, she said. The car pulled over on Beach Road near Kings Beach and, during the scuffle, Ibrahim and Maahir arrived in a BMW. It is believed they were following the car. The supposed buyer was severely assaulted during the scuffle and a passing taxi [driver] pulled over to stop the fight, Naidu said. The group chased the taxi driver down the road, with the father allegedly firing two shots at him. The taxi s tyres were then slashed before the suspect [Heita] was placed into the BMW boot. According to Naidu, the group were en route to the Bethelsdorp police station when they spotted a police vehicle and reported the incident. While the knife has been recovered, the firearm has not been found yet. Firearm residue tests have been done and we are awaiting the results to determine who shot the firearm, which has still not been located, Naidu said. Ibrahim and Maahir appeared in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate s Court yesterday on a charge of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm for their alleged part in assaulting Heita. Maahir, who paid bail at the police station shortly after his arrest on Monday, left the court quickly yesterday to get money to pay for Ibrahim s bail, which the court fixed at R500. The state had asked for bail to be set at R2 000 as a string of serious charges, including kidnapping, could still be added. However, Ibrahim said he earned R300 a week and could only afford R500 for bail. The case has been postponed to April 3 for further investigation. Approached for comment, Firdous asked the reporter to phone her back later, but then failed to answer repeated calls. This incident comes just a month after a similar setup arranged for the sale of a car in Johannesburg led to the seller being killed and his friend injured. Police have cautioned buyers and sellers using online sales platforms not to be baited into a trap. They advise that people rather arrange meetings inside a police station or a populated area to avoid being attacked. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share