OUT FOR RECORD: Rio Olympian Gift Leotlela, of Tuks, is the ASA U20 100m champion Picture: GALLO IMAGES Varsity Athletics returns to the athletics calendar for its fifth season next month. This year s season will comprise two meetings the first at the University of Potchefstroom on March 3 and the second at the University of Pretoria s newly renovated stadium on March 31. Some of the athletes taking part this year performed on the Olympic stage in Rio last year, and they are set to use this platform to build towards Tokyo 2020. Olympic athletes who have competed in Varsity Athletics include Wayde van Niekerk, Justine Palframan, Rushwal Samaai, L J van Zyl and Akani Simbine. The public is sure to be spoilt for choice with scintillating performances from the cream of the crop of South Africa s athletics community on track and field. The likes of Gift Leotlela and Clarence Munyai are set to light up Friday nights. Leotlela is a UP-Tuks student, the ASA U20 100m champion and a Rio Olympian. All teams will be announced next week. My goal is to break Akani s 100m SA record of 9.96 seconds, and if I can do it at Varsity Athletics, even better, Leotlela said. Varsity Athletics manager Jana Arlow said: Varsity Athletics affords fantastic opportunities to our young athletes to help them prepare for the biggest athletics events in the world, the Olympic Games and the World Championships. They have such passion and love for the sport, and will certainly do their universities proud during Varsity Athletics in 2017. The event will continue with the format introduced last year, with two divisions: Top 15 (A) division with eight competing universities; and Top 10 (B) division, with four competing universities. This format was adopted to include more universities. Universities that were included in Varsity Athletics last year were the University of Cape Town, Central University of Technology, University of Limpopo and Vaal University of Technology. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share