&nbsp; Alex Cavan Picture: Mike Holmes The Voice of SA coach Bobby van Jaarsveld was the first to turn his chair for Port Elizabeth singer Alex Cavan on the music reality show last night. However, it was Carltonville matric pupil John James Janse van Rensburg who stunned The Voice of SA coaches on Sunday night with his cover of Meghan Trainor s Like I m Gonna Lose You. The 18-year-old arguably the biggest surprise of the night and the final audition of the show won over all four coaches and received a standing ovation. As the blind auditions for the show passed the halfway mark coaches snapped up six impressive vocalists with Bobby and Karen walking off with two new singers each while Lira and Kahn each welcomed one new member. My heart skipped a beat when I heard you sing. You took my breath away Karen Zoid told John James. Lira and Kahn gave him the highest praise for his performance but it was Bobby who told him to go with his heart when it came to choosing between the coaches. Clearly John James had made up his mind from the start as he announced without any deliberation that he wanted to be on #TeamBobby. Port Elizabeth s Alex get the buzzer Bobby also added gravelly-voiced Alex Cavan, 23, from Port Elizabeth to his team. Alex sang a stripped-down acoustic version of the 90s R&amp; B classic by Blackstreet No Diggity a surprising choice but one that Bobby appreciated enough to press his buzzer for. Coach Kahn lamented not turning for Alex once the song was over but that suited Bobby just fine. I m honoured to have you on my team Bobby told Alex. The second performer of the night who garnered a full house of chair turns with her powerhouse vocals was Celest Schoeman, 28, from Strandfontein in the Western Cape. Celest who is a full-time musician took on a huge challenge as she opted to belt out Adele s When We Were Young. The risk paid off as the coaches raved about her performance. Kahn told her that it was clear that shed d been singing for a long time. Lira raved to Celest that she was looking forward to hearing her for the rest of the show indicating that if she were to choose to be in #TeamLira she would take her all the way. But in the end it was Karen Zoid who bagged Celest for her team much to her delight. This girl can win this show Karen predicted. #TeamKaren s second addition of the night was quirky Christie Woolmington, 20, from Johannesburg. Christie sang Colbie Caillat s Bubbly. Coaches Karen and Lira loved the unique tone of her voice enough to turn their chairs. Karen even told Christie that both she and Lira would buy her album immediately and, with that Christie who was moved to tears of joy picked Karen to be her coach. Both Lira and Kahn also welcomed unique female vocalists to their teams. Mia Pretorius, 20 a student at the University of the North West at Potchefstroom bravely auditioned with coach Bobby van Jaarsveld s song n Vrou Wil Dit Hoor! Bobby was visibly grappling with whether or not to turn for Mia as fellow coaches Karen and Lira both encouraged him to press his buzzer throughout the performance but he explained to Mia afterwards that he felt it would have been too obvious had he turned for her. Kahn however recognised a special quality in her voice telling Mia that her audition was totally flawless as he gladly welcomed her to his increasingly eclectic team. Lira turned her red chair for 28-year-old Al Petersen from Cape Town as the petite Al took to the stage to perform Bob Marley and Lauren Hill s smash hit Turn Your Lights Down Low. Something about her performance ultimately resonated with Lira as she pushed her buzzer as Al s audition was about to end. I love that you made that song your own Lira told an elated Al. The Voice South Africa Season 2 airs every Sunday night at 5.30pm on M-Net Channel 101 or catch the repeat on M-Net City Channel 115 on Monday at 60pm. Visit www.mnet.tv/thevoice to watch exclusive interviews with the coaches and talent and follow all the breaking news and conversations around the show on Twitter @VoiceSA / #TheVoiceSA or on the official Voice SA Facebook page. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share