Viva Gym staff Chere Kotze, Fabian Rademeyer and Demi St Clair-Marks Picture: Brian Witbooi The 12 couples who are through to the final round of The Herald Bride and Groom 2016 competition have some fantastic prizes to look forward to, along with one reader of The Herald who will win a package of prizes for correctly predicting the winner of the competition. Worth more than R100 000, here is what is on offer for the 12 couples who made it through to the finals. 1. The winning couple will receive a six-month membership as well as a Viva Gym hamper with a gym bag, towel and water bottle. 2. The SMS prediction competition winner will receive a Viva Gym three-month membership valued at R1 197. 1. The Beach Hotel will host a private dinner for the winning couple and eight guests, which will include a private venue and special dinner menu valued at R3 640. 2. The hotel will be hosting The Herald Bride and Groom cocktail function and the finalist couples and guests will be treated to welcome drinks and cocktail canap s. 1. For the winning couple there is a four-night cruise to Maputo and the Portuguese Island in Mozambique in April to the value of R19 200. Please note the cruise date is fixed at April 10-14 2017. The prize includes: Accommodation for two adults in a balcony cabin, all meals and entertainment on board. The prize excludes: R955 per person port, baggage, insurance and service charges, to be paid by the winners. Flights to and from Durban and transfers to and from Durban harbour, all drinks (except tea, coffee and juices with breakfast), optional shore excursions and all items of a personal nature. 1. The winning couple will receive a bumper hair package including Wella product hampers to the value of R982 and hair services to the value of R1 150. 2. Each bride finalist will receive a Wella product hamper and treatment and blow-dry service to the value of R913. The grooms will each receive a cut and blow-dry service to the value of R190. 3. The SMS reader prediction competition winner will receive a treatment and blow-dry service to the value of R435. 1. The winning bride will receive Pollen s florist s choice of seasonal bunch. 2. Each of the 12 bridal finalists will receive a Pollen s seasonal bunch. 3. The SMS reader winner will also receive a Pollen s seasonal bunch. 1. The winning couple will receive a two-night stay for two adults at Kuzuko Lodge in the Eastern Cape to the value of R12 540. The prize includes two nights accommodation, two Karoo finger lunches, two dinners, two breakfasts, a morning game drive, a sundowner game drive and an hour-long couples massage treatment. 1. The winning couple will receive a Citizen Ladies Rose Eco-Drive watch valued at R5 845 and a Citizen Gents Radio Controlled Eco-Drive watch valued at R8 999. 2. The SMS reader prediction competition winner will receive a Ladies Obaku watch to the value of R2 495. 1. The winning couple will receive their flights to and from Durban and a 12-month e-edition subscription valued at R480. 2. For each finalist there will be a three-month e-edition subscription to the value of R180. 3. For the SMS reader winner, there will also be a three-month e-edition subscription. 4. The finalists photographer will also receive a three-month e-edition subscription. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share