HISTORIC WIN: Non-league Lincoln City players celebrate their shock win against Premier League side Burnley in the FA Cup on Saturday. Picture: AFP Non-league Lincoln City and third-tier Millwall struck late winners as Burnley and Premier League champions Leicester City were humbled on a historic day in the FA Cup on Saturday. Sean Raggett scored an 89th-minute header as Lincoln, who reside in the fifth-tier National League, stunned Burnley 1-0 in the fifth round, in one of the competition s biggest upsets. Ten-man Millwall, seventh in League One, claimed a third topflight scalp in this season s tournament by dramatically sinking ailing Leicester 1-0 via a 90thminute goal by Shaun Cummings. I m lost for words. It s mad. I can t believe it! Lincoln s match-winner, Raggett, 23, said. Crazy. A non-league side in the quarterfinals, in modern football. It s unheard of. Second-half goals by Pedro and Diego Costa earned Premier League leaders Chelsea a 2-0 win at second-tier Wolverhampton Wanderers, conquerors of Liverpool in the previous round. But Pep Guardiola s Manchester City face an unwanted replay after drawing 0-0 at Championship high-fliers Huddersfield Town, three days out from their Champions League last-16 showdown with Monaco. Eighty-one places below Burnley in the English football pyramid, Lincoln prevailed at Turf Moor when centre back Raggett squeezed a header over the line following a late corner. East Midlands club Lincoln become the first nonleague team to reach the FA Cup s last eight since Queens Park Rangers in 1914. They are the eighth side from below England s four fully professional divisions to have beaten top-flight opposition since World War 2 and only the second to have done so since 1989. We said it was a one-in-a-100 chance and thankfully we got that opportunity, Lincoln manager Danny Cowley said. Sutton, also of the National League, will hope to pull off another famous upset when they host Arsenal tonight. Burnley manager Sean Dyche made six changes and it was quickly clear that his side were in for a scrap as Lincoln s Nathan Arnold squared for Jack Muldoon to sweep a first-time shot over the bar. The home side procured the clearer chances thereafter, but could not take them, and with a replay beckoning Lincoln s moment of history arrived. You have to work, be diligent and believe you will get another chance. I think they only had one chance &#8212; credit to them. My team were nowhere near the level they can show, Dyche said. Millwall followed Lincoln s lead by overcoming the 52ndminute dismissal of Jake Cooper to sink a Leicester team showing 10 changes thanks to defender Cummings s last-gasp strike. This sums up the FA Cup, Millwall manager Neil Harris, whose team have also accounted for Bournemouth and Watford, said. We took inspiration from what Lincoln have done. What they achieved today outshines us. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share