Presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma s KwaZulu-Natal power base could be thrust into turmoil after lawyers representing the ANC in a crucial court battle pulled out. It is a move that deals a huge blow to the ANC s leadership in KwaZulu-Natal who have been taken on in court by a group of party rebels who want the results of the November 2015 provincial elective conference declared null and void. On the eve of last year s local government elections, the ANC was hauled to court after more than 200 aggrieved members went to the Pietermaritzburg High Court. The hotly-contested conference saw Sihle Zikalala defeat Senzo Mchunu to become the province s chairman. Citing procedural flaws the group believe that none of the leaders including secretary Super Zuma and chairman Sihle Zikalala were legitimately elected. They argue that their delegates were systematically blocked from taking part in the election of the officials and that votes were rigged. If the rebels win the case it could force the party to re-host its conference a potential disaster given that there are just 10 months before the ANC hosts its national elective conference where Dlamini-Zuma is widely expected to be backed for president. KwaZulu-Natal sends more delegates to the conference than any other and the person the province backs has never been defeated in the presidential battle. Court documents show that the rebel group s lawyers Ngubane Wills Inc filed a notice of withdrawal as attorneys of record last Friday. No reasons were provided. The ANC and its lawyers have not yet responded to questions about the latest development. The withdrawal comes after several postponements in the case with the ANC arguing that the rebels were withholding crucial information. It is also speculated that the lawyers withdrawal could be linked to meetings hosted between the ANC s top brass in the province over the last few weeks. It has been established that ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize met Mchunu and national executive committee member Bheki Cele to discuss the deep fractures in the province. The rebel group is believed to have backed Mchunu in the battle with Zikalala but Mchunu has denied they are acting on his behalf. While both parties have ruled out any prospect of an out-of-court settlement it is understood that Mkhize s initial approach was to get the ANC and the rebels to abandon the litigation. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share