Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Holmeleigh Farmyard Picture: Brian Witbooi Kragga Kamma Game Park Picture: Mike Holmes Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Just off the Kragga Kamma Road and close to the Sardinia Bay and Seaview beaches, Theescombe is a nature lovers paradise. The area is all about open skies and fresh country air. Farms and smallholdings dominate and the positioning of the suburb gives you a sense of peace and tranquillity which city slickers are increasingly seeking out. Residents like Tracy Schroeder rate the community s passion and care for animals as one of the best reasons to live in the area. Having the privilege of sharing our beautiful suburb with Kragga Kamma Game Park, small freeroaming wildlife and plenty of resident horses means animal welfare is a focal point in our suburb, says Tracy. She is also passionate about the active community Facebook page which she says keeps residents informed on public announcements, events in the area, any suspicious activity and even lost pets. Traffic is generally a breeze in Theescombe, with the occasional traffic jam, most often caused by a flock of guinea fowl, baby ducks or large tortoises crossing the road, says Tracy, who has been a resident here for eight years. It s not uncommon to see families riding horses, bicycles or walking their dogs in the early mornings or evenings. Just next door to Theescombe, off the Kragga Kamma Road, is one of Port Elizabeth s most-loved venues for family outings: Holmeleigh Farmyard, an animal touch farm with tractor rides and a host of playground equipment, where parents can relax and children can play to their heart s content. A drive through Theescombe and its surrounds offers several quaint spots for tea or coffee with a real country feel. Although it s considered a bit of a drive for some, those who have chosen to live here say there s nothing better than coming home to a peaceful suburb like Theescombe after a busy day at work. Property prices Expect to pay R4m for a typical property (four-bedroom house) Things to do Take the kids to the Holmeleigh Farmyard. Visit Kragga Kamma Game Park Go hiking on the Guinea Fowl Trail. Best in food Thatchwoods: a family-run venue for weddings, conferences, team building and Sunday lunch. Sue-Anne s Food: a family-owned and run restaurant with everything from hearty home-style cooking to elegant meals. The Boma: a welcoming retreat with delicious meals in a safari-style restaurant. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share