&nbsp; Never had zoodles? It s the name for zucchini noodles otherwise known as baby marrow or courgette cut into spaghetti-like strands and a popular substitute for pasta in the low-carb high-fat (or healthy fat!) kitchen. Try this recipe for warm tomato and pork stir-fry with courgette noodles, from The Lose It! Magazine Cookbook. This new South African cookery book is aimed at giving you a healthy and delicious diet, with the accent on low-carbohydrate dishes. And, low-carb is not only for the meat eaters, the book includes heaps of vegetarian dishes also, as well as nut- and dairy-free alternatives, plus some mouthwatering sweet treats. Warm tomato and pork stir-fry with courgette noodles Ingredients 500g pork fillet, sliced 2 teaspoons Thai 7-spice 3 tablespoons coconut oil 1 x 5cm piece ginger, chopped 2 garlic cloves, chopped 2 spring onions, sliced 1 stalk lemongrass, finely chopped 300g mixed cherry tomatoes 1 x 165ml can coconut milk 2 tablespoons lime juiceii himalayan salt and black pepper 4 courgettes (baby marrows), cut into julienne strips or spiralised into spaghetti fresh coriander and baby gem lettuce, to serve Method Toss the pork fillet with the 7-spice and set aside Heat 1 tablespoon coconut oil in a wok over a high heat, add the pork and stir-fry until crisp and golden. Remove pork and set aside. Add another tablespoonful of coconut oil to the wok, toss in the ginger, garlic, spring onion and lemongrass and saute until golden. Add the tomatoes, cook for a minute, then add the coconut milk and bring to a boil. Simmer for two minutes. Add the pork and lime juice and season and season to taste. Keep warm. Heat the remaining tablespoonful of coconut oil in a pan or wok, add the courgette strips, season and cook until crispy. To serve: divide courgette noodles between 4 serving bowls, top with tomato pork stir-fry and serve with coriander and lettuce leaves. The Lose It! Magazine Cookbook is published by Sunbird, the illustrated imprint of Jonathan Ball Publishers. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share