SAD TIME: Gerald de Bruin holds a picture of his dead baby Picture: JUDY DE VEGA Baby dies days after father forced to hitch-hike as no public transport to township Rushing through a storm with rain drenching him and his newborn baby, Gerald de Bruin was forced to hitch-hike to his home in Chatty extension from Livingstone Hospital as the government housing project he lives in has no clinic or public transport. After De Bruin s daughter died two days later due to pneumonia, his plight last year has put the spotlight on the poor design and lack of amenities at government housing projects that keep emerging around Nelson Mandela Bay. De Bruin, 42, a father of six who was relocated from Kleinskool to Chatty Extension in 2008, said he felt the government had forgotten about families there after they were supplied with houses. My daughter was only two days old and I had to leave my wife behind at the hospital, and after hitch-hiking for hours and finally getting a lift, I arrived at home at about 11pm with a newborn baby. She died of pneumonia because the house we lived in was unfinished, and it s still not finished. We were relocated from a floodplain area and brought to an even worse place. You can t just relocate us to where there are no resources, no clinics, no schools, a frustrated De Bruin said. The housing project in Chatty Extension was meant to offer a new lease on life for thousands of residents but many said that, should the opportunity to go back to their former homes arise, they would grab it with both hands. The densely populated area was established in 2008 and is home to thousands who were moved from informal shacks in and around Port Elizabeth in the city s bid to provide decent housing. . In 2008, the Department of Housing changed to Human Settlements as government wanted to focus on providing a more integrated approach toward housing delivery by ensuring roads, schools, clinics and recreational facilities were built. Provincial human settlements spokesman Lwandile Sicwetsha said various factors could have contributed to the situation at Chatty Extension. For example, budget allocation and the scarcity of land in close proximity to social and economic amenities. Sicwetsha added that at times land was obtained, but crucial role players had no further plans for developing areas, making the allocation of funds difficult. This meant people often had to travel long distances. NMMU development studies professor Janet Cherry said the thinking around human settlements had been good in principle, but flawed in its implementation. One of the problems of low-cost housing developments is that they are right on the edge of the city and the big problem for people is the cost of transport. The problem is that there is a huge demand for housing and people are on a waiting list. Should a new area have water and electricity, they move in immediately but there are no other amenities there, Cherry said. As it took time for an area to be fully developed, the community would remain marginalised until then, she said. Municipal spokesman Mthubanzi Mniki could not say how many people the municipality had moved to the area, saying only about 95 households had recently been relocated. Human settlements portfolio head Nqaba Bhanga said a police station was in the process of being built in the area. The municipality was also prepared to offer land to government departments, but no approaches had been made. Three weeks ago, The Herald reported that a multipurpose centre in the area worth R18-million was being stripped away brick by brick. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share