President Jacob Zuma Picture: ESA ALEXANDER/THE TIMES Opposition expects him to spout a lot of hot air and not act on promises As ANC heavyweights in parliament distanced themselves yesterday from President Jacob Zuma s controversial decision to deploy more than 400 soldiers to his state of the nation address (Sona) in Cape Town tonight, opposition parties believe his speech will, once again, be all talk and no action. While the economy is expected to be the main feature, the parties, as well as the ANC, are calling for concrete action and tangible results. What we will have is the usual talk. The president talks a good game, DA chief whip John Steenhuisen said. There s gonna be zero follow through that has typified every one of his Sona addresses. He makes grand political pronouncements grand political promises, but never translates [them into action]. One remembers the one when he said he would create all those jobs. It never happened instead we lost jobs. EFF spokesman Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said the party would hold Zuma accountable even though they did not recognise him as president. On what the speech should focus on he repeated the party s call to expropriate land without compensation. You ve also got to then immediately establish a state bank. Such a state bank must be a proper bank, Ndlozi said. He said deploying the army at the Sona address was designed to intimidate us and it s unconstitutional . ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu said they would like to see more tangible movement with regard to black ownership of productive assets of the country. We have already spoken on those views at our lekgotla including land, he said. We would like to see serious programmes and progress with regard to these matters. We would like to see actual proof. We would like concrete action with regard to these matters of an economic nature. Meanwhile, Save South Africa convener Sipho Pityana has come under attack by trade union federation Cosatu for what it called his phony outrage against Zuma yesterday. Pityana in an address to hundreds of people gathered at St George s Cathedral in Cape Town for Save SA s Real State of the Nation Address called Zuma a limping president who was not trusted by his own party. He said Save SA had no confidence in the president s ability to reflect reality in his Sona address. He is a leader not befitting the honour of presidency, the businessman said. Nepotism corruption and state capture are the real state of the nation and [he] is at the centre of it. Only when Jacob Zuma goes will South Africa be saved. Cosatu said it had noted the slanderous statements directed at Zuma with amazement. While Cosatu believes that all elected officials are fair game to criticism and should be held accountable by all the citizens who elected them, we find Mr Sipho Pityana s sanctimonious hypocrisy unbearable it said. The sad reality is that Mr Pityana is part of the establishment and a spineless and subservient apologist for this country s degenerate forces of capitalism. Parliament, meanwhile, seems to have backtracked on the deployment of 441 soldiers for Zuma s address following objections about the larger than usual deployment, which has increased dramatically since 2013. That year, there were 168 soldiers deployed for the Sona and, in 2015, there were 188. There is no record of army deployment for last year s event. I ve not heard anything that suggests that the military has been sent to parliament, Mthembu said. I ve spoken to the presidency. There is no such indication. Obviously, we will be opposed to any military being sent to parliament. He said those responsible for drafting Zuma s letter to parliament must correct the wording of the letter. Mthembu spoke just before a meeting between Speaker Baleka Mbete and party chief whips, where she is said to have given an assurance that there would be no more army deployment inside parliament. In a letter dated February 2, the Presidency said the deployment of the SANDF would assist the police to maintain law and order during the opening of parliament. National Council of Provinces chairwoman Thandi Modise confirmed that since 2013 the number of deployed defence force members had increased, but could not provide any reasons why. The fact that this year there is 441, parliament cannot explain, she said. Earlier on in our meeting with the chief whips of different parties, we undertook to find out why the numbers have grown because we ourselves cannot explain it. We do not want to speculate and give reasons for things then tomorrow you say we have misled you. Steenhuisen said after the meeting that the opposition had raised strong objections to the deployment of the military. We ve been given an assurance by the speaker and the chairperson [Modise] that these military people will not be allowed on the parliamentary precinct at all, he said. They said they didn t request the military to come, it s something the president has done. They don t know why the president has deployed so many people. TMG Digital Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share