NIFTY FOOTWORK: Happy Jele, of Orlando Pirates, runs the ball away from Bidvest Wits Phakamani Mahlambi during the match last night Picture: GALLO IMAGES Students top of log after downing Pirates in high-security encounter In the face of a larger and far more visible police presence and more security personnel, the crowd behaved but Orlando Pirates slumped further, losing 2-1 to Bidvest Wits last night. First-half goals from Frank Gabadinho Mhango at the Orlando Stadium in Johannesburg were enough for the students, who have moved back to the top of the log on goal difference. Pirates have not won in their last seven Premier Soccer League matches dating back to their 1-0 win away to Chippa United on November 22. They also lost their unbeaten home record this season even though they showed a bit more fight than their half-dozen capitulation at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday afternoon. They finished the game with 10 men after goalkeeper Jackson Mabokgwane was sent for handling the ball outside the box after shambolic defending that has become the trademark of Pirates. Mhango s goals within 29 and 45 minutes painted a picture of Pirates dereliction of their defensive duties. Mhango waltzed past Happy Jele and Thabo Matlaba before unleashing a right-footed curler past Mabokgwane. A headed goal from a Phakamani Mahlambi corner exposed Pirates tall timbers in Ayanda Gcaba and Jele in terms of positioning. Mahlambi and James Keene ran at a rejigged defence at will and Mabokgwane had to be at his best to prevent a first half embarrassment. Mabokgwane also kept out two consecutive shots from Mahlambi and Keene early in the second half. Having embarrassed Ajax Cape Town last week on Wednesday, Wits were in the mood for a similar result. Luvuyo Memela and Thembinkosi Lorch tested goalie Darren Keet three times, but were selfish as there were better positioned Pirates to pass to. The Buccaneers were also unfortunate not be awarded a penalty in the 36th minute, when Nazeer Allie clearly brought down Pirates captain Oupa Manyisa in the box. The lack of protest from Manyisa was telling he had no fight left in him. While Pirates finally found a goal through Jele after the defender capitalised on a rebound from a Dove Wome shot there was the ignominy of Mabokgwane s 76th-minute red card after handling the ball outside the box. It was the flag of surrender. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share