Lusapho April. Picture: GALLO IMAGES Uitenhage-born star athlete Lusapho April hopes to clinch his second sportsman of the year title at this year s Eastern Cape Sport and Recreational Achievers Awards at The Boardwalk on February 25. The nominees in various categories were named yesterday. Becoming sportsman of the year will automatically place April in the running for the Sports Star of the Year award, a title he won in 2014. The three-time Hannover Marathon winner is up against swimmer Alard Basson and former SA Junior Lightweight champion Aphiwe Mboyiya. Despite the tough competition, April believes he stands a good chance of winning both awards. My achievements speak for themselves. If there is anyone who s achieved more than I have, then tough luck for me. But I believe I stand a good chance, he said. Winning both titles again would mean a lot to me. It would be like a reward for what I have been doing for all these years. In the event s 20th edition, the theme for this year is embracing excellence for the love of sport. The awards are used to recognise and honour individuals, sports codes and teams that have excelled both on and off the field last year. Eastern Cape Sports and Recreation MEC Pemmy Majodina said the awards would this year also celebrate stalwarts and legends of sport, and activists who fought for non-racial sport. Most of those people have not yet been rewarded for the work they have done, Majodina said. So [an additional] category will look at them to say: We [have] non-racial sport today [thanks to] your contribution. We are also in partnership with Standard Bank and The Boardwalk but we are calling on other private sector interties to come in too, as sport is a catalyst for nation-building, for unity in our country and [for] development. We want every local sphere to take the issue of sport very seriously. If you want to deal with and attack drugs and the abuse of alcohol, you can only do that when [you] make it a point that young people are in the sports field and on good sporting facilities. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share