Paul Miedema A vocal, passionate voice for tourism with a love for Port Elizabeth s townships is how friends of Paul Miedema will remember the Calabash Tours owner. Miedema died on Wednesday, aged 45. A stalwart of township tourism in Nelson Mandela Bay, Calabash Tours was named as the joint overall winner at the first Responsible Tourism Awards, held at the World Travel Market in London in 2014. The company also won the category for poverty reduction. The previous year, it won Best Social Involvement Programme and Best Practice Economic Impact at the Imvelo Responsible Tourism Awards in Johannesburg two of the three categories. Calabash Trust board chairman Gary Koekemoer said Miedema would be sorely missed. He was a social justice activist and his actions were his mouthpiece. He really had a big heart and worked passionately in the townships, where he made great strides in bringing kids from the UK to the Bay and cultivated progressive responsibilities in those areas. He is well known not only in the region but across the country for his amazing work in promoting the townships and changing the stigma by offering progressive tours, he said. He will be sorely missed by his family, friends, and staff members. Koekemoer said the death of Miedema who leaves his former wife, Thandi, and three teenage daughters had come as a shock. He did not want to disclose the cause of his death. Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism chief executive Mandlakazi Skefile described Miedema as a vocal and passionate voice in the industry who would be greatly missed. He had a real niche in the responsible and sustainable tourism industry and he lived this concept. We have lost a real asset in this industry. Miedema and Thandi were co-owners of Calabash Lodge and Tours, which they started in 1997. They established the Calabash Trust in 1999. It looks at ways to involve tourists in assisting and developing local communities. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share