Chicago&#8217;s is ready to razzle Picture: Brian Witbooi And a five, six, seven, eight cue the music, flick the lights and get ready to be entertained in an all-new, all-encompassing and fabulous new venue destined to tickle anyone s fancy. Punted as Port Elizabeth s answer to the glamorous 1920 s jazz club era with a twist, Chicago s in Newton Park opened its doors for the first time last weekend. Chicago s uses a m lange of performances from burlesque dancing to drag shows and other tantalising titbits. Mixing old world musical influences focused on the city of Chicago s jazz era with contemporary cabaret and singing, a night out at Chicago s will definitely be worth it. Each night at Chicago s, situated at 317 Cape Road between Third and Fourth Avenues Newton Park, gives patrons a choice of fun activities and performances. Chicago s flagship event is the burlesque dancing and cabaret every Friday and Saturday evening. Their food is also good and moderately priced. On Tuesdays experience bingo with a twist, hosted by resident drag queens Cleo Parker and Rolinda Hey. Chicago&#8217;s Picture: Brian Witbooi Wednesdays feature variety nights which, according to events manager Bennie Gerber, will change every week and include a variety of acts such as drag n dine, open mic night, comedy shows and jazz evenings, to name a few. Thursdays will see a twist on traditional ladies nights and will include drag performances, burlesque demonstrations and party games. Although exclusive to ladies, it will be open to the LGBT community as well. The ultimate Chicago s experience on Friday and Saturday nights, known as The Haus of Burlesque , offers a milieu of experiences from aerial silks and fire poi by Sian Beth Hitcher and Mariska Knoetze to drag queens Parker and Hey, with comedy skits and vocal stylings from local artists. Our burlesque shows draw inspiration from classic/neo burlesque dance, cabaret shows and Vegas showgirls, Gerber said. The music and dance styling used are also very glam and timeless, reminiscent of the Golden Age of entertainment circa 1920s to 1950s with swing, big band and jazz classic, but not limited to these, he said, with newly evolved electro swing and contemporary pop classics also featuring. Chicago s owner and founder Lee Muller said: PE needs something new and different on the social scene and Chicago s is just that . Chicago s is a multi-faceted venue that delivers entertainment, a fully licensed bar and restaurant with a la carte menu. Bookings are essential. Call Gerber on (041) 364-0618 or whatsapp 083-425- 4191. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share