VENUE WITH A VIEW: An afternoon view from the cosy new arts venue in Central Picture: Supplied Fashion, film, music and art have found a new home in the Bay in a venue that celebrates the city s most historic area. Owner of the Roof Garden Bar in Central, Julie Coetzee, said she had chosen the venue as she had been looking for something which celebrated the city and hailed the potential of the CBD. The building, in Chapel Street, was the perfect fit. Coetzee started the Garden Bar in 2014 after running pop-up weekends in January 2014 to see if the market was interested. After doing pop-up weekends we went official after renovations [and] adding permanent safety later that year. We then set off hosting corporate year ends and a few public events and grew steadily, Coetzee said. The 425m venue has a permanent clear tent structure with a bar and a view of the most historic part of the Bay. Coetzee said the venue was a space for niche independent entertainment and gatherings that inspired creative collaboration. I wanted a space that celebrated the city, and no longer ignored the potential of the CBD. Our Roof at 33 Chapel Creative Hub was a perfect option as it overlooks Algoa Bay and the city buildings. It reminds you of the height and scope of potential in the city, Coetzee said. Taking advantage of the venue are the Black Filmmakers Film Festival (BFFF) organisers, who hold monthly screenings at the Roof Garden Bar. The BFFF is a Cape Townbased company that gives a platform to black filmmakers, producers and entrepreneurs. Producer and director Simbi Nkula, 34, said Coeztee had done a great deal in assisting them. Nkula said 220 people attended the last screening. We are trying to put filmmakers of colour on the map. This movement is about celebration. We want these filmmakers to be recognised. When Julie approached us we came to PE and we ve been amazed at the support. This shows that the need is there, Nkula said. DDS Events and Marketing event manager Gift Hlahane, who hosted the Chillas on Chapel event last week, said he was glad to have an unconventional place for his event. People are tired of doing events in conventional spaces. The venue is reachable and this part of town definitely needs to be revived, he said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share