We reach two major milestones in our current drought period this week and neither of them is positive.</p> First, our Churchill Dam level has fallen to 29% of its capacity. This 70-year old dam on the Kromme River delivers 100 million litres of water to the metro every day, one third of our total daily usage. If we are forced to remove this dam and its potential yield from our water equation, we are in real trouble. Second, the level of water available from all of our dams has dropped below 50%, to 49%. This might appear to be simply a psychological barrier, but it is more than that. When we have 45% of our water actually available to us, we are, by law, entitled to have a drought disaster declared. With this declaration comes possible national funding to help us get through this tough time and to prepare for the next inevitable drought. We are starting to prepare for that declaration. We have to be very clear on what we ask national government to provide. Desalination perhaps? In 2010, a drought disaster was declared in this metro. We were allocated R1.6-billion to build the Nooitgedagt scheme, to bring in water from the Gariep Dam. By the time rains fell and our dams filled again, the construction of the project was not yet complete. We had spent R450million of our allocation and were well on our way to having a supply in place to protect us against the next drought the one we are currently experiencing. But there was no longer a disaster and, very shortsightedly, the funding was terminated. After years of struggling for alternative funding, we now find ourselves still three years from the completion of the Nooitgedagt project and thus with no protection against the current drought, which we knew would inevitably arise. So, while we will need to ask for funding for long-term protection projects, like desalination, we will have to include shorter term protection too. We need, for example, fully to explore our substantial groundwater resources. We need to focus immediate and intense efforts on reducing our water losses. A desalination plant will take three to five years to come on line, at a cost of about R1.5-billion, plus operating costs, and will deliver about 60 million litres of water a day. Reducing our current water losses from 43% to 15% will cost about R1.6-billion, and will make an additional 80 million litres of water available to us every day. This is where the real, immediate solution lies. (We are currently budgeting to cover these costs and achieve these savings over 10 years. An extended drought, and a disaster declaration will make the interventions urgent and the possibility of national funding a reality.) Fortunately, for now, almost all metro citizens are determined to play their part to be water smart. The municipality is employing more plumbers, more pipeline inspectors and more skilled supervisory staff. Most residents are highly responsible water users (and many are reporting those residents who behave irresponsibly). Businesses are not only cutting their own use to cover only their production needs, but many have also offered to assist the metro to address water wastage (at many of our schools, for example). Because the water usage graph is showing a downward trend, meaning that, by the end of this financial year in June, we should have achieved the 15% reduction in usage we targeted, it is very unlikely that we will increase water tariffs any further. We hope, also, that it will not be necessary to fine anyone for their abuse of our scarcest resource. In 2010-11, we managed to save water, working together, without issuing a single fine. We hope to achieve that again. We are certainly issuing letters of warning in cases of abuse and where it becomes necessary to pursue charges in terms of our by-law, we will. We trust we won t have to. Please play your part. Be watersmart. Report any leaks or bursts or water abuse to 0800-20-5050 or to waterleaks@mandelametro.gov.za . Annette Lovemore is the member of the Nelson Mandela Bay mayoral committee for infrastructure, engineering, electricity and energy Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share