Kevin Abraham Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Lovers of folk music are in for a treat as one of Port Elizabeth s leading muso in the genre returns to the stage after a 20-year hiatus. Bringing his show called, Folkify!, Kevin Abraham, 58, will be performing for three nights starting today at Art on Target in Target Kloof. Folkify! is a merging of guitar, violin and percussion, along with fine vocals . . . The theme of the show is to take some of those old songs that were hits of mine, some people my age would remember, plus some of the great rock n roll songs such as Lockomotive Breath by Jethro Tull and Led Zeppelin s music and folkify them, Abraham said. Abraham has teamed up with violinist Janet Sklar and percussionist and member of VuDu, Kristo Zondagh, a collaboration he said would liven up the performance. I wanted a collaboration for this first show just to make it more exciting because I tend to play ballads and I wanted to bring some more up-tempo music in. I heard Janet play and I asked her if she could join me. She does really interesting music, she s classically trained and has a beautiful way of playing, which perfectly suited what I m doing, and then I felt some percussion would be good but I didn t want drums as really this is called Folkify!, he said. Abraham, founder of Frontline Research, started playing the ukelele after his mother bought one for him when he was about five years old. Born in PE and raised in Matatiele, he learnt a lot about African culture, which sparked my interest so when I went to university, I did anthropology before he was discovered by Mountain Records. While I was studying anthropology, a talent scout heard me playing in a restaurant and he told me they needed a couple of songs for a Cape Town record they were doing. He asked if I had any songs. Of course I didn t but I told him I did and I quickly wrote a couple of songs. Went into the studio two days later, recorded a song and everything went quite well. So they asked me if I d to do an album, which I said I would. I was still a student at the time so I did the album and one of the songs which was called More than Just a Friend from the album Inside, which a lot of people really loved, went up the charts and suddenly I was in demand and started touring South Africa and played in big shows, playing with amazing people, Abraham said. During his performing days, the father of two played with the likes of Johnny Clegg, Peter Sarstedt, Falling Mirror and Wendy Oldfield. We all had a great time playing. It was the heyday of live music because today that live music is not that easy but in my day you could work every single night, he said. As I ve grown older, my music style has changed, I m more gentle in my approach and the songs I write about, instead of love and lust, how I won her and lost her it s more about the wisdom that comes with growing older, having children and having friends that are with you for a long time and so I m probably starting to write things that resonate with more of an older group, he said. Back by popular demand, Abraham said he had a policy called playing with purpose , and as such the proceeds from Folkify! s first show would go to the Walmer Angels Project, a non-profit organisation helping out in Walmer Township. I promised myself in playing, I m going to have purpose . . . I want to give back and possibly leave something behind, he said. Other dates for Folkify! are March 1-3 and all shows start at 8pm. Patrons are encouraged to bring their own drinks but a variety of wraps will be on sale. For tickets, which cost R100, contact BA at Art on Target on (041) 373-3334. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share