FAST-PACED: NMMU s Ian Shouliwa, front, shields the ball from Senzo Langa, of Gemineyez. Picture: EUGENE COETZEE The start of the basketball season was celebrated in grand style at the weekend when the Nelson Mandela Bay Basketball Association (NMBBA) held both a pre-season tournament and an awards function at the NMMU Missionvale campus. There was great excitement among all basketball enthusiasts and a wider focus was placed on the action itself as the day produced some entertaining displays in the finals of all three divisions of the preseason challenge. In the women s division, NMMU Madibaz faced PE Comets in a contest that was expected to be close. Madibaz, though, were quick to get into control of the game while Comets started very slowly. Madibaz maintained a comfortable lead throughout all four quarters of the game. In the game s last five minutes, Comets tried to fight back but it was far too late as NMMU Madibaz clinched the final 34-21. In the masters division, Spartans came up against PE Comets. Their game was also an exciting and close affair as they clashed for the second time in the same tournament. Their balanced game was decided in the dying seconds, with Spartans securing a victory of just three points as the game ended 43-40. Fierce competition came up in the last game of the day in the men s division as old rivals Gemineyez and PE Comets got yet another chance to battle it out. Their game had all the characteristics of a high-level match-up, with both teams living up to the expectations. Coming into the game as defending league champions, Gemineyez capitalised on their current form to outwit Comets, with the final score 80-70 to take the tournament. Later, the awards function was held at the same venue and was attended by members of the Nelson Mandela Bay Sports Confederation and senior officials of the district Department of Sport, Arts, Culture and Recreation. The NMBBA season starts on March 5. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share