Monde Tabata Picture: GALLO IMAGES A new era is dawning for the troubled EP Rugby Union (EPRU) after SA Rugby official Monde Tabata said the cash-strapped union will be holding elections in early April. The decision was announced at an EPRU meeting at the St George s Park cricket stadium on Saturday, which was attended by SA Rugby Union (Saru) president Mark Alexander and other top officials. Tabata was appointed as administrator of EP Rugby by Saru after a cash crisis hit the union and it was placed under administration. EPRU s administration is set to be returned to local hands following a series of ground-breaking decisions at the weekend meeting. Elections will be held in 35 days, Tabata said. We will be calling for nominations from today [yesterday]. It has not been decided yet where the meeting will be held, but an announcement will be made nearer to the time. The administrator will hand over the union to the new executive after the elections. I am very excited about this new dawn and we expect good quality candidates to come forward. The cleaned up EP constitution will attract good candidates. The constitution also talks to the anxieties of potential sponsors. Work is being done on sponsorship and, at an appropriate time, we will release information. The constitution has now been cleaned up and we have aligned it to the SA Rugby constitution and World Rugby principles as well as Sascoc requirements. Tabata said EP Academy players, who had not been receiving payment, would be paid this week. Saru spokesman Andy Colquhoun said the liquidation of EP Rugby (Pty) Ltd the commercial arm of the EPRU would continue in parallel. It is hoped that process will now have a more positive outcome than was expected, clearing the way for a recapitalisation plan to move ahead with interested local parties, Colquhoun said. Alexander said: I d like to commend the Eastern Province rugby community for looking forward and accepting SA Rugby s proposals. This has been a difficult period for the union but there is now a clear way forward for rugby to restore itself to an even keel. When it became clear that EP Rugby would need a new president after the cash-crisis storm broke, the names of several potential candidates were mentioned to take over from president Cheeky Watson. Although Watson and his executive narrowly survived a vote of no confidence last year, they are powerless, with Saru still making all the decisions affecting the union. Former Springbok star Garth Wright and ex-Southern Spears chief executive Tony McKeever have emerged as possible candidates to lead the union into a new era. A clear succession plan was drawn up last year by the Rugby Transformation Coalition (RTC). This emerged after former Springbok Thando Manana said he was available to lead the union when it was thought Watson would be toppled by a vote of no confidence. The list of potential candidates, which has been seen by The Herald, includes RTC spokesman Bantwini Matika, who has been an outspoken critic of Watson and his executive for some time. The full list of candidates mentioned by the RTC were Wright, McKeever, Manana, Bantwini, Willem Oliphant, Brian van Rooyen, Mbulelo Gidane, Mpumelelo Tshume and Andre Rademan. Van Rooyen is a former SA Rugby president, while Gidane is a former director of sports at the municipality and an ex-Bombers player. Tshume is a former Kwaru scrumhalf and Saru exco member, and Rademan is a Crusaders Rugby Club official. Businessman and former Despatch Rugby Club president Oliphant also has rugby community support. Watson said last year he would not seek re-election. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share