KEEP IT IN THE FAMILY: Westee s Bakery owner Maryann Swanepoel, left, with her daughter Emily Swanepoel at the bakery s popular North End premises Picture: FREDLIN ADRIAAN Westee s Bakery a landmark enterprise The proof of a successful business recipe may well be in eating the proverbial pudding, but at long-standing Nelson Mandela Bay bakery, Westee s, it is also in the pies, sandwiches and cakes. Established as a family business 38 years ago on Port Alfred s West Beach, Westee s Bakery and Caf has tasted great success, weathered financial and economic storms and overcome a highly competitive industry environment to make it as a landmark Port Elizabeth enterprise Outlining a long business journey through an industry jam-packed with competitors and tough trading conditions, Westee s owner Maryann Swanepoel, 50, attributes the North End-based company s survival in the bakery and confectionery trade to a combination of quality products and quality service, served in a wholesome, old-school family style . This is a second generation business which has had its ups and downs. Nine years ago, we learned some valuable business lessons when we attempted to grow the business. We had been approached by large retail stores to supply products for their bakeries, so we expanded our premises and added a factory, explained Swanepoel. She said when the huge opportunity fell through, she had been forced to shut the factory down leaving her to concentrate solely on the original corner bakery which she had maintained and which had generated its own customer base. Swanepoel, who bought the business from her mother, Ann Fleischer, who originally established it in 1979, said the failure of their business expansion, which had lead to a liquidation, had brought with it a sense of humility. It was a great opportunity as we had been approached by big chain stores to supply food to them, and we did well in the beginning. I decided to invest a lot of money into the factory so that we could supply them. But when they pulled out, we were left with huge debts. It was a terrible thing to go through and I would not wish it upon anyone. However, we recovered and are now doing really well, Swanepoel said. Besides the attention the business pays to producing high-quality products, Swanepoel revealed that an equally important component of the company s success was its nine brilliant staff members, who had all been with Westee s for more than a decade. They are simply the best and they take absolute pride and joy in what they do, she said, adding that the company s main product lines included confectioneries, birthday party cakes, pies, sandwiches and quick lunches. My mother has always driven good quality, well-priced and freshly baked goods daily which is the same principal I have continued running the business on. Swanepoel, who had at one stage operated five bakeries in the Bay before reducing her operations down to one, said the current location of her business played a crucial role in its success. This is not a seasonal business, and on average, we remain busy throughout the year. However, we do experience sales highs and lows depending on the time of month. We have a lot of business people, lawyers and general workers who come through and stop by for a quick lunch and I believe that if you make a good product, people will keep coming back, which I think is something we have been doing well, said Swanepoel. She added that while she has lost a number of clients due to the area they traded in, she would not consider moving the store as it was on a high pedestrian traffic route. A unique selling point for Westee s, according to Swanepoel, is that the business is one of the few bakeries in the Bay which uses 100% fresh cream in their confectioneries and makes much of their products from scratch. She described her trading environment as competitive. Every garage and large chain stores have bakeries in-store and sell their products at a cheaper rate because they have the economies of scale. These outlets are among my biggest competitors. It is not like the old days when there were a few corner bakeries and butcheries offering specialised services. Now we have to adapt and think of new ways to keep people coming back. We don t make bread and rolls anymore because the required machinery is too expensive and our target market is not interested in the freshly baked breads, she explained. Swanepoel said her business traded in non-essential products and relied on disposable income. When money is tight for people, we tend to feel the pinch too. We are considered to be a luxury for most people and it affects us when people can t afford to spend those extra few rands on a slice of cake or a brownie. We have had some rough patches but the business runs smoothly and on its own turnover, she said. Swanepoel named perseverance as the key ingredient for success in her industry. You need to be patient and keep working at your dream. You have to persevere and push through, she said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share