Orlando Pirates have called a press conference for today and speculation is rife that the Soweto giants will name changes to their technical staff to prevent their season sliding even further into disarray. This follows their 6-0 demolition by Mamelodi Sundowns at Loftus Stadium at the weekend, which led to crowd violence. Premier Soccer League (PSL) spokesman Luxolo September said yesterday the league would investigate the violence. The trouble erupted when Sundowns scored their sixth goal in the 81st minute, sending inadequate security personnel, club officials and players running for cover. Bucs supporters were seen turning on the Brazilians fans, who retaliated. The clash has left about 13 supporters in hospital. Bucs are likely to face a heavy fine from the PSL for the conduct of their fans. Look, what a day. You all saw what happened, September said. I think it is important to get all the facts. It is important for us to establish exactly what happened, but what happened is regrettable. It is important for us to speak from an informed position when we do speak as the league. But you all know that what happened is not good. It is not just about the league, the PSL only, it is about football and I know you guys love football. September said he was not in a position to confirm the number of injured people or comment on the claim that a supporter died. I honestly don t know. I wouldn t say anyone knows, because I tried to ask for that information and not from one person. It would be irresponsible of me to say anything, he said. Sundowns said they would cooperate with the PSL and police to assist in the investigation. We remember that in Dobsonville an incident like this happened where Mamelodi Sundowns fans were arrested in a match against Moroka Swallows [in Thulani 2012], Thuswa Sundowns said. spokesman And even though we were the away team [then], we cooperated with SAPS and also with the PSL. Many of our fans were arrested. We will cooperate. Pirates assistant coach Benson Mhlongo has apologised to their fans for the embarrassment. Bucs conceded six goals for the second time this season. Their 6-1 SuperSportdefeat against United equalled their previous record loss and led to the resignation of coach Muhsin Ertugral. Pirates caretaker-coach, Augusto Palacios, was unable to face the media in the postmatch press conference where Mhlongo had to address the briefing. He was not feeling well, Mhlongo said explaining Palacios s absence from the field for the final eight minutes of the game once play resumed. Asked what Bucs could say to their fans Mhlongo replied: To say sorry, what else can you say? Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share