Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality sport, recreation, arts and culture head Noxolo Nqwazi Picture: Supplied. It is not clear if City of Champions was successful or not. This is according to Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality sport, recreation, arts and culture head Noxolo Nqwazi. I can t say it was successful or not. There might be bad things about City of Champions, but there were a number of good things, she said. Weekend Post interviewed Nqwazi and city manager Johann Mettler about the company and its spending in November. As the director of sport, recreation, arts and culture executive Nqwazi was ultimately responsible for ensuring there was value for money and that the events were a success. Nqwazi said the role City of Champions played in the city was to instill the values of Nelson Mandela and that the company had received funding through an unsolicited bid. City of Champions had approached the municipality with the idea. Asked if there was any oversight on City of Champions spending, she said: We do not request bank accounts or detailed spending. They must report and have the capacity to do the work. They must provide us with audited financial statements. She declined to directly answer questions on the spending on artwork, hotels, a lavish holiday, fancy whisky and restaurants. Spending was guided by the sponsorship agreement between the city and City of Champions, according to Nqwazi. The agreement states City of Champions will furnish the municipality with a detailed budget and costing. City of Champions boss Mazizi Msutu also signed an annexure stating he would implement effective, efficient, and transparent financial management . If someone pitches an event there is some kind of project management fee. He has staff to pay and other operational expenses. She said City of Champions was not required to open a separate bank account when receiving municipal money. But how the bank account is being managed should be in line with the requirements [of the] Companies Act and Bank Act. He is required to maintain a high degree of responsibility. When questioned about the record attempts, Nqwazi was under the impression that eight Guinness World Records were broken. Asked about the cost of each record attempt, she said: We would have to work it out. In a December 2015 close-out report City of Champions listed R2-million spent on medals handed out at events. Mettler said: Were these gold medals? I would expect them to put on an admin fee for fetching it. But that is a ridiculous amount. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share