A young South African writer whose visible burn scars have given her a unique perspective on life, is launching her autobiography What Do You See? in Port Elizabeth next weekend. Johannesburg-based Itumeleng Sekhu, 28, also visits schools to give motivational talks through the Itumeleng Sekhu Foundation, an NPO set up to help others. I got burnt from a candle when I was 11 months old and my right hand, as well as four fingers on my left hand, were amputated, she says. However, she did not allow that to dim my light or prevent her from fulfilling what she saw as her purpose. I have one finger which is my thumb, but yet I can type 35 words per minute and I can drive myself anywhere in the world. Sekhu is launching her autobiography at the Protea Marine Hotel at 7pm on Friday March 3, and hopes to inspire and motivate people not to feel sorry for themselves. Tickets are R250, which includes a copy of the book. A portion of the ticket price also goes to fund school fees for needy pupils. The university graduate has worked in several media positions and over the past six years built up a career, as well as a personal identity, that she now would like to share with others. In a fascinating reversal of the destructive power of fire, Sekhu also has a candle-making business, saying that candles also give light, and I encourage people to burn their own candle in their lives, to see and appreciate their own beauty and purpose . She hopes her words will take the reader on an emotional journey, firstly through the physical pain after the fire and then through the deep anguish she endured as a young girl who was rejected and ridiculed because I was different . This story is an illustration of my life and my ability to beat the odds so heavily stacked against me &#8230; starting with the fire that nearly destroyed my life, Sekhu said. I keep the story real by telling it like it is. She credits her strong Christian faith for helping her overcome the obstacles threatening to overwhelm her. The book also highlights her drive not merely to survive but to live my life as God intended . In What Do You See? we see how I was eventually able to push past the barriers of a low self-esteem and discover my strength, resilience and unique abilities so I could see beauty as more than just skin deep. I challenge my reader to look beyond the scars that people see on the outside so that they can see who I really am &#8230; a strong woman with a beautiful soul and indomitable spirit. More information from Itu_ Sekhu@yahoo.com, 073-164-3979. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share