The Nal&#8217;ibali reading campaign aims to read aloud to at least half a million children across South Africa. It is World Read Aloud Day (Wrad) on Thursday and the Nal ibali reading-for-enjoyment campaign is preparing to shatter its record from last year and read aloud to at least half a million children across South Africa. Last year, more than 300 000 children heard a special story read to them in their own language and this year read-aloud sessions big and small are planned nationally. Some community reads will be led by Nal ibali, and others will be organised by members of the public with schools, libraries, fellow literacy and non-profit organisations joining in. In Nelson Mandela Bay, Nal ibali will host a Wrad reading session from 1 to 4pm at Market Square in Uitenhage, and invites all schools, writers, poets and storytellers to join in. Nal ibali commissioned children s author Niki Daly to write a story for the day, The Best Sound in the World, and has had it translated into South Africa s 11 official languages and illustrated by artist Rico Schacherl. Along with supporting materials, it can be downloaded free on the Nal ibali website, nalibali.org and at nalibali.mobi The Best Sound in the World is perfect for reading aloud as it incorporates onomatopoeic words which are sure to inspire the readers and listeners. Nal ibali sees Wrad as one of the most important events on our calendar, Nal ibali managing director Jade Jacobsohn said. Children who are immersed in great and welltold stories in languages they understand become inspired and are motivated to learn to read for themselves. Nal ibali sees reading aloud as an important building block in children s literacy development: it shows them how stories work; it teaches that reading and stories can be meaningful and satisfying; and gets adults and children to connect in relaxed ways. When read in home languages, story-telling also builds the foundations that children will need to learn a second language. This is particularly vital for school children making the transition from instruction in their home language to English in Grade 4. Inquiries: Madoda Ndlakuse on 076-183-7260, or visit the Nal ibali website at nalibali.org Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share