GOT HIM: NMMU s Somila Jho tackles Theo Maree, of Tuks, during their Varsity Cup match last night Picture: SASPA UP-TUKS scored five tries to one as they eased past Madibaz 33-16 (half time 21-3) in round three of the Varsity Cup. The impending storm in Pretoria stayed away to allow a first half conducive to running rugby, which both teams exploited. Tuks had to shake off the rust from their bye in round two after Madibaz scored an early penalty, courtesy of flyhalf Simon Bolze s boot. Tuks replied with three tries to inside centre Impi Visser, scrumhalf Theo Maree and flyhalf Tinus de Beer. Visser ran a perfect line to cut the defence to ribbons, while Maree scored off the back of a dominant scrum in the 15th minute. Madibaz spent the rest of the half scrambling in defence as Tuks continued to pile the pressure on the men from Port Elizabeth. The dam broke a minute before half time, when De Beer crossed from close quarters and sunk his third conversion to give his team a 21-3 lead at the break. Madibaz got stuck in early in the second half as Bolze kicked two more penalties as the visitors started to find their feet. Tuks appeared to be shell-shocked with Madibaz s resurgence, but this was nullified by replacement fullback Manie Libbok, who scored a brace to put the match out of reach. Madibaz did not stop pushing and were rewarded with a try by lock Gerrit Huisamen. Meanwhile, the first match of last night saw Wits pick up their maiden Varsity Cup win, beating CUT 41-3. Wits dominated possession, territory and the scoreboard on a historic day for Wits rugby. The game was off to a good start for the home side when winger Wandisile Simelane dived into the corner to give his side an early lead of 7-0 after flyhalf Warren Gilbert converted the try. The game eventually saw the Witsies come close to putting 50 points on the board, with substitute prop Ameer Williams having the last say for the hosts. In the other matches, Ikeys beat Shimlas 22-7 and Maties beat NWU-Pukke 31-9. Madibaz face Maties next on Monday (kickoff 6.30pm). Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share