This was the week that was: State of the nation day before Even before the state of the nation address (Sona), the planned signing of the minimum wage agreement with the unions was in doubt. It was meant to be the highlight of Jacob Zuma s address. Cosatu pulled out, saying it needed more time to consult members about the proposed R20 an hour minimum wage. Other unions have apparently signed with the deputy president what confusion! Then the Presidency announced that 441 soldiers had been drafted in to assist SAPS and the parliamentary security unit to maintain law and order . More soldiers than MPs! We also hear the DA is seeking legal advice as to whether this was constitutionally correct. More work for the lawyers! Then there was a threat that the journalists might be restricted to a media square ? Later this was denied, but that doesn t mean it wasn t on the table at one stage! Sona on the night! I wasn t going to chirp about Sona, but I can t just ignore the disgusting behaviour and ghastly spectacle that we witnessed in and outside parliament! I suppose we knew (and they certainly did) that something like this was going to happen, hence the presence of the SAPS riot squad conveniently located near the exit from the National Assembly and the rumoured 441 soldiers on standby! I must commend the DA leadership and MPs for their conduct and polite interventions with the chairpersons of the joint sitting. The response from speaker Baleka Mbete to the DA s request for a moment s silence in memory of the 94 dead frail care patients was totally out of order! How the president of the country could just sit there and do or say nothing astounds me. The EFF members have a right to disrupt the Sona this is accepted if done in accordance with the house rules, but having made their point (and the NCOP chairperson was very tolerant), they then went too far and were obviously intent on starting a fight to be thrown out! However, the validity of their claims that the house guards (the white-shirted brigade) included police officers, and that they were equipped with black cable ties to tie up MPs and also biological injections needs to be investigated urgently. We saw scuffles, hand-to-hand fighting, boxing exchanges, men versus women, plastic helmets being used to repel the house guards and this was inside the parliament. Outside further fights with the riot squad as the exiting MPs were pushed away. What response was there from JZ? Chuckle, chuckle! He wasn t even able to depart from his written speech, which he had great difficulty even reading. Will South Africa ever be taken seriously again in local or international politics? Is this what Madiba left? I hope the ANC and EFF leadership apologise to the nation for their disgusting confrontation! The DA walked out of this mess with a great deal of credit. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share