HEAD HUNTER: Sundowns Ivorian star Yannick Zakri heads the ball as Chippa United s Kristopher Bergman gives chase during their Absa Premiership match at the Sisa Dukashe Stadium in Mdantsane, East London Picture: MICHAEL SHEEHAN Mdantsane fans treated to thriller as both sides come out guns blazing Chippa United and Mamelodi Sundowns had to share the spoils in a thrilling Premier Soccer League game of two halves at the Sisa Dukashe Stadium in Mdantsane last night. Even though the game ended 1-1, both sides had a fair share of chances in a highpaced encounter. Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane made seven changes to the team that did duty against Pirates at the weekend, with some of the star players like African based Caf player of the year Dennis Onyango, Tebogo Langerman and captain Hlompho Kekana rested. Chippa started the brightest with the ever impressive Sandile Zuke, captain Thamsanqa Sangweni and Buyani Sali controlling the congested midfield well in the opening exchanges. But Sundowns showed their class when they broke the deadlock against the run of play, in the 28th minute, when captain of the day Wayne Arendse met a well-taken Teko Modise free kick and calmly slotted the ball past Daniel Akpeyi. Sundowns could have doubled their lead in the 33rd minute after Chippa central defender Justice Chabalala committed a foul close to his box, but Arendse failed to connect the ball from the free kick. From the resultant goal kick, Chippa launched an attack which resulted in Sali being fouled in the box. Referee Victor Gomes, who was not far from the action, did not hesitate and pointed to the penalty spot. Rhulani Manzini stepped up and sent goalie Wayne Sandilands the wrong way to level matters. Fans who flocked to the stadium, despite bad weather in East London, were treated to superb action as both sides went all out in the action packed first half. In the second half, Modise failed to restore Sundowns lead when he found himself unmarked in the box in the 45th minute, but squandered the golden opportunity with his shot sailing over the bar. Both sides missed chances in the second half with the Brazilians playing balls behind Chilli Boys back four more often. Akpeyi was the busiest of the two goalkeepers in the second stanza when the defending champions attacked relentlessly with long balls, but Chippa defended well. After a good passage of play, striker Leonardo Casto could have wrapped up the game in the 78th minute, but directed a weak shot straight at the Chippa goalkeeper. Chippa substitute Linda Shiba almost made an immediate impact minutes after coming on in the 83rd minute for Manzini, but he shot wide. Shiba almost made up for his mistake when he forced a save out of Sandilands within the dying minutes of the game. Before that, Chippa coach Dan Malesela and the entire bench were on their feet appealing for a penalty after the ball hit a Downs player s hand, but Gomes waved play on. The soccer encounter lived up to its billing as both sides came out guns blazing, playing attractive carpet football throughout the 90 minutes. Chippa dominated in the first half while the second stanza belonged to the Cloorkop team. Malesela is on record as saying his charges needed to turn their good form into results, but they failed against Downs. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share