SEEKING A BETTER LIFE: Nosipiwo Ntaopane, right, and her colleague Nomfunelo Mbathane said the R 3 500 minimum wage will change their lives for the better Picture: YOLISWA SOBUWA But note of caution sounded on impact on jobs Government proposals aimed at setting a R20 hourly and R3 500 monthly national minimum wage have largely been welcomed in Nelson Mandela Bay. The proposals were signed off late on Tuesday by Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and labour and business representatives. President Jacob Zuma is expected to reveal more details of the wage proposals in his state of the nation address (Sona) in parliament today. At the moment, wages for hourly workers differ across the various economic sectors, and across provinces and the regions within them. Federation of Unions of South Africa secretary-general Dennis George said yesterday the proposed minimum wage would apply to workers across all sectors, with the exception of domestic and agricultural workers, who would get 80% and 90% of the new wage respectively if it was made official. The target date for implementation is May next year, George said. But there is still a long process to follow before it can be put into law. Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber chief executive Kevin Hustler said: We believe it is a fair wage considering the slow growth in the economy at the moment and the massive youth unemployment. Certain industries in the Bay, including the automotive and component sectors, were already paying wages higher than that proposed and would not be affected. Other sectors, like the retail, security and hospitality sectors, will be affected and will have to adjust their operations, Hustler said. The industries that will be affected most by the proposed new wages are the ones that have the potential to exponentially grow the economy and jobs in the region. Tourism, light manufacturing and agro-processing, in particular, are high-priority growth sectors for our region, and we hope the proposed increases will not negatively influence the sustainability, growth and potential of jobs in the sectors. Coega Development Corporation spokesman Dr Ayanda Vilakazi said he did not believe new investments into the IDZ would be affected and, while the CDC was in favour of a minimum wage, it also supported fair and reasonable compensation. South Africa s inequality levels are unique and would require unique interventions to try to minimise the gap, Vilakazi said. We view the proposal as a step in the right direction. NMMU business and economic sciences executive dean Dr Ismail Lagardien said: We may want to consider the idea of a minimum wage in terms other than simply whether it makes economic sense. We may want to think of it in the context of social justice, equality and very purposeful intervention by the private sector in the overall wellbeing of South Africans. The private sector is the best engine for job creation and expansion of the economy. It will benefit most from better access to education, healthcare and a more prosperous and stable society. Volkswagen Group SA spokesman Matt Gennrich has said previously the company already pays its workers above the proposed new rate. VWSA is in favour of a society in which people earn a fair wage that allows them to have a reasonable standard of living, he said. There should be little to no direct effect on VWSA. However, should a minimum wage cause higher unemployment, the ripple effect on companies and society may then have an as-yet-undefined effect. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share