The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality needs to urgently fix its ailing infrastructure and educate residents about being water savvy if it wants to claw its way out of the water crisis before it is too late. This was the advice of Dr Andries Jordaan of the University of Free State, who led an international delegation of scientists in a two-day visit to the Bay. Jordaan, a director of the Disaster Management Training and Education Centre for Africa, was in the city with 14 international scientists, including Romanian cosmonaut Dumitru Prunariu, yesterday. As part of the visit, the delegation visited the Bay s Joint Operations Centre (JOC) at the South End fire station to see how it operates. In 2009, I trained a number of councillors and officials in this city, Jordaan said. In 2013, we trained 67 councillors in disaster and risk management, so I have a good relationship with the municipality. This centre is amongst the best in the country and I wanted to show our international guests how a city can run its disaster management centre. After a presentation about the metro s water situation by the city s director of water and sanitation, Barry Martin, suggestions from delegates were put forward. Some asked if the city was looking at other water sources, such as harvesting storm water. Martin said the city was involved in discussions with other municipalities, but the storm water harvesting would be risky and too expensive to treat. It is a potential source but a dangerous one, because where human beings are let s face it we are not the cleanest people around. The storm water system can have an oil spill, or an animal and metal contaminating factor on that rain water, Martin said. That would need to be treated, which would be substantially expensive. Jordaan said the city needed to urgently address water leaks to deal with the crisis it faces. I think water losses are a big challenge in Nelson Mandela Bay. You lose more than 30% of it to leaks, he said. By just maintaining the reticulation, you will save a lot of water. Awareness of the water scarcity to communities is also critical. You are using a lot of water per household. People must become aware of the value of water. Campaigns can make a huge difference in saving water. He said the Free State province had also faced severe drought. We just got out of a serious drought. We are lucky, we had good rains and the Gariep Dam is over 80% full. Nelson Mandela Bay s problem is drinking water. The dams are below 50%. We don t have a choice. We have to make sure we don t lose water through leaks and make sure people don t waste water. Last week, infrastructure and engineering head Walter Shaidi told councillors that the city was on a brink of being declared a disaster area as its dam levels were below 50%. The latest dam level figures published on the municipality s website show a total combined capacity of 49.07%. Prunariu also had an opportunity to speak about his experience as the 103rd cosmonaut to travel into space. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share