TOUGH JOB: New Orlando Pirates coach Kjell Jonevret Picture: Supplied Jonevret not satisfied with starting with draw Kjell Jonevret has the look of a man who can bring a breath of fresh air to Orlando Pirates a team that desperately needs to learn to breathe easily again. Bucs were impressive in patches in Jonevret s first game as coach in the 1-1 draw against Polokwane City at the Orlando Stadium on Saturday. A soaked pitch made for tough conditions. Generally though Pirates showed signs of a better structure in defence and direction going forward. An Mpho Makola error giving the ball away in his own half led to Rodney Ramagalela s opener for City in the 54th minute. Bucs profited when Thapelo Tshilo missed a regulation header in Polokwane s area to gift Dove Wome a 58th-minute equaliser. Riyaad Norodien hit the upright in the dying seconds denying Jonevret a win in his first game. Overall having had half a week to train the team Joneveret could not have asked for too much more even if he was not satisfied with a draw . Most times when we have a draw I m not satisfied the 54-year-old Swede said. It could be sometimes. For example, when the team scored in the 93rd minute in Cape Town [against Cape Town City last week] then it could be a little OK. But today [Saturday] I was hoping for a victory, so we could get rid of that talk that we have not won for a long time . . . But of course now we can start working on a bit of a higher level next week . . . because we have learned a bit more about each other. So hopefully we are going to get better and better. But I m not satisfied I want to win. Meanwhile, Ajax Cape Town might not have won a league game this year, but coach Stanley Menzo took exception at the weekend to reporters questions about the form of his side. He was delighted with a 1-1 draw against Kaizer Chiefs at the Athlone Stadium on Saturday and somewhat taken aback at the post-match press conference when reporters suggested a possible slump as Ajax have picked up just two points from a possible 12 since the mid-season break. You have to stop you are putting us in a negative light an irritated Menzo said when asked about the failure to win in the last four matches. We ve played only against top teams this year . . . Chiefs, Wits and Cape Town City. What do you want? That we beat them all? You are making the players feel like they are nothing. The only thing I was not very satisfied with was the 5-0 loss to Wits [on February 7]. When the former Dutch international took over from Roger de Sa in October, Ajax had just two points and were bottom of the log. But they won five out of eight games before Christmas including beating champions Mamelodi Sundowns. Let s be reasonable an annoyed Menzo said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share