The groom will receive a Citizen Gents Radio-Controlled Eco-Drive watch The bride will receive a Citizen Ladies Rose Eco-Drive watch This is your last chance to enter The Herald Bride and Groom 2016 competition as entries close at noon today. The winners stand a chance of walking away with designer watches from one of Port Elizabeth s leading jewellers, Francarlo Designer Goldsmith. Valued at almost R15 000, the winning couple will walk away with his and hers Citizen watches. The bride will receive a Citizen Ladies Rose Eco-Drive watch valued at R5 845 and the groom will take home a Citizen Gents Radio-Controlled Eco-Drive valued at R8 999. Francarlo Designer Goldsmith executive director Tanya Slabbert said The Herald Bride and Groom competition was a fun way for newlyweds to showcase and remember such a special day in their lives, as well as a chance to allow the wedding spirit to linger a little longer, not to mention the fabulous prizes to be won. It s a wonderful opportunity for Francarlo to give back to the community. We love being associated with an event introducing the metro s newest couples, which also provides the winning bride and groom with a great start in an exciting chapter of their lives, Slabbert said. We will be providing the winning couple with Citizen timepieces, one of the world s leading brands when it comes to technology and watches, Slabbert said. The men love the Promaster range, from the ever popular Divers, Pilot, Radio-Controlled and Satellite watches, to their newest addition, the Blue Tooth, with its classic style and smart features. With rose gold trending at the moment, Slabbert said: There has been a significant increase in popularity with rose gold, as it blends so well with both white and yellow gold jewellery, not to mention making a beautiful statement on its own. It forms part of a prize package worth more than R100 000 which also includes a two-night stay at Kuzuko Lodge, a hair package from Ultimate Stylists, flowers from Pollen, a six-month gym membership from Viva Gym, a four-night cruise from MSC Cruises, a private dinner from The Beach Hotel and a 12-month subscription for The Herald newspaper. One reader who correctly predicts the winners through an SMS competition will also walk away with a Ladies Obaku watch valued at R2 495. In the spirit of love and Valentine s Day just around the corner, bring in this article, and we will provide a 10% discount on your gift of love, Slabbert said. Entries are open to couples who were married between January 1 and December 31 last year and live in The Herald circulation area. How to enter: e-mail ONE photograph only to: fembride@timesmedia.co.za by noon today with The Herald Bride and Groom 2016 in the subject field. Include the bride and groom s first and second names (and bride s maiden name), address, day-time contact numbers, wedding venue and date, and the name of the photographer. All qualifying photographs will be posted to www.heraldlive.co.za. Further information from: The Herald marketing coordinator Nazma Smith (041) 504-7184 or fembride@timesmedia.co.za Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share