SLIM PICKINGS: The new minimum wage increase is expected to place more pressure on the agriculture sector. Seasonal picker Thobeka Mantile is seen working on a citrus farm in Addo Picture: JUDY DE VEGA Drop blamed on seasonal requirements for labour While overall South Africa s agriculture sector employed more people over the last quarter of last year, Eastern Cape agriculture s employment figures dropped by 12% between October and December. However, sector leaders say they are not too concerned as the drop is an annual trend and is still within the expected range for a province that relies heavily on seasonal workers. According to Statistics SA s quarterly Labour Force Survey, the Eastern Cape is one of four provinces where employment dropped. Agricultural Business Chamber head of economic and agribusiness intelligence Wandile Sihlobo said the fact that employment in the agricultural sector showed its biggest increase since 2008 was an encouraging sign. This shows there is a lot of positive growth in the sector and that we are starting to stabilise and bounce back from the extended period of drought we are currently experiencing, he said. According to the survey, the employment figure went up by 38 000 between October and December, bringing the total labour force in agriculture to 919 000. The Western Cape showed the biggest increase, employing 54 000 more people in the last quarter, while sectors like grain, livestock and summer crops showed positive growth and offered more employment opportunities. On the other hand, the Eastern Cape s employment figures dropped from 100 000 to 88 000 quarter-onquarter, but Sihlobo said he was not too concerned with the province s performance. The Eastern Cape did not underperform. The biggest growth just happened in industries that are not based in the Eastern Cape, he said. The Eastern Cape s drop in employment is still in line with annual trends due to a large percentage of seasonal work. Sihlobo said the Eastern Cape had a solid employment base and did not raise any concern at this stage. Agriculture employs 6% of the province s active labour force. We need to keep in mind that the new minimum wage increases could also affect the employment figures as the new wages are slowly phased in. So the figures could look a lot different as the next two years progress, Sihlobo said. Agri Eastern Cape president Doug Stern agreed with Sihlobo and said they would keep a close eye on employment figures and trends over the next few months. Current fluctuations, due to seasonal labourers, are nothing new, he said. Looking forward, we need to keep an eye on factors that will change the game. We will have to monitor the situation as we gradually phase in the new minimum wage. Regarding seasonal labourers, Stern said the new minimum wage would affect citrus and soft fruit producers differently than year-round producers. Livestock is one of the Eastern Cape s biggest industries. The wage increase, coupled with the drought, could force some farmers to consider restructuring their business. At this stage agriculture is a very fragile sector in the Eastern Cape and we will have to study the impact of the new minimum wages very carefully. Stern said he was confident agriculture would sustain itself if resources were managed appropriately. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share