RISING STAR: Makazole Mapimpi during a Southern Kings training session at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium yesterday Picture: MICHAEL SHEEHAN Speedy winger hopes to contribute to team success Explosive Southern Kings winger Makazole Mapimpi hopes to play an integral part in the team in his debut Super Rugby season. The 26-year-old Mdantsane-born player showed his brilliance in his Super Rugby debut when he avoided a tackle, found the gap between two Jaguares players before beating the fourth for pace to dot down for his first try of the tournament. However, the Kings lost the game 39-26, something that the speedy former Border Bulldogs winger hopes will not be a regular occurrence. He said he did not know what to expect in his first outing. I was very nervous and scared because I have never played in Super Rugby before. I went from the Currie Cup First Division straight to Super Rugby so I was scared since it s a totally different level. But I was happy to be given a chance, he said. Describing his debut try, Mapimpi said the ball he received from flyhalf Lionel Cronje was every winger s dream pass. I like those sorts of balls where I receive the ball in space, beat an opponent and leave someone for pace. Mapimpi said he hopes to help the team win some games. I would love to contribute to the success of the team. There should not be one player that stands out but we should play together as the team. That would help us to win instead of looking at certain individuals. I would love to play well all the time but as long as the team does well, I am happy, regardless of my performance, he said. Mapimpi, who was one of the stars in Bulldogs impressive First Division Currie Cup run last season is not letting his debut try go to his head and plans to continue working hard and learning from his mistakes. I don t know how much I will contribute to the team because Super Rugby is long and of course not easy, he said. Mapimpi is jetting out of the country for the first time with the squad that will play against the Sunwolves in Singapore on Saturday (kickoff 10.55am). Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share