Bangladeshi patient Sahana Khatun, 10, could be the first female ever afflicted by so-called &#8220;tree man syndrome Picture: AFP Photo` Bangladeshi doctors have conducted surgery to remove bark-like growths from the skin of a young girl believed to be the first female to suffer from a condition known as tree man syndrome . Sahana Khatun s doctors said they hoped to release the 10-year-old from Dhaka s Medical College Hospital within weeks after successful surgery to remove the growths from her chin, ear and nose. The surgeons, who are treating Sahana for free, believe she could be the first female to suffer from the epi-dermodysplasia verruciformis, known colloquially as tree man syndrome, although more tests are needed to confirm this. Fewer than half a dozen people are known to have the disease across the world, including rickshaw-puller Abul Bajandar, 27, the first recorded Bangladeshi to suffer from the disease. Sahana Khatun&#8217;s doctors said they hoped to release the 10-year-old from Dhaka&#8217;s Medical College Hospital within weeks after &#8220;successful&#8221; surgery to remove the tell-tale growths from her chin, ear and nose Picture: AFP PHOTO / STR The operation was successful. We removed warts from her face. We hope to release her from the hospital within a couple of weeks, the clinic s burn and plastic surgery unit head, Samanta Lal Sen, said. Sen said Sahana was at an early stage of the disease and might not need further surgery. Sahana s father, Mohammad Shahjahan, said he was delighted by the news. The doctors said Sahana will get well soon. I m waiting to take her back home and send her back to school again, he said. The same hospital has conducted at least 16 surgical procedures on Bajandar over the last year to remove huge growths each weighing 5kg. His plight captured the sympathy of the nation, leading Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina to promise him free treatment. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share