Picture: Zamandulo Malonde Picture: Zamandulo Malonde Picture: Zamandulo Malonde Picture: Zamandulo Malonde Picture: Zamandulo Malonde Picture: Zamandulo Malonde Picture: Zamandulo Malonde Picture: Zamandulo Malonde Not even the blustery windy weather could stop exercise fanatics from attending a newly formed fitness group s session in Zwide at the crack of dawn on Saturday. The Kubo Active wellness programme held its first Meet-and-Greet Wellness Day on Saturday at the Dan Qeqe Stadium.on Saturday. Founder Luyolo Tandani said the aim of the event was not only to get people moving but also to socialise together. This is also an opportunity for people to weigh themselves to keep track of their progress, he said. Since the first event held three weeks ago, which attracted just two people, Tandani said more than 80 people now attended classes six days a week at 5.30am, from Monday to Saturday. As a fitness fanatic, I was asked by one of my friends to help her exercise in the mornings. More people asked to join us and the number grew bigger and bigger. We initially just jogged on the road but decided to move to Dan Qeqe Stadium for safety. Tandani said this was only the beginning of greater things for the programme.as the team planned to grow bigger and better from here. The group has already attracted members from Daku, KwaMagxaki, KwaDwesi and Kwazakhele. KwaMagxaki fitness fan Phumza Goqoza joined Kubo Active group on its second day after reading about it on Tandani s Facebook page. She has not missed a day since, especially as transport is provided. Every morning I wake up with so much excitement about the sessions because everyone is fun to be around. Tandani organised transportation free of charge and most of us get lifts from other group members to the stadium and back every morning, Goqoza said. Saturday s event closed off with prizes awarded to four of the best performing members for the day. Kubo Active meet at Dan Qeqe Stadium every morning from 5.30am except Sundays. For more information contact Tandani on 083-730-5611. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share