The Dirsuwei family mom Sarah, dad Ralph and their three sons Jacob, 16, Luke, 14, and Cian, 11, from Port Elizabeth is on a mission to explore the world together, spreading positivity about South Africa through their travel blog, Chasing the Rainbow. They also discover travel gems closer to home, such as their day trip to Storm&#8217;s River for a kayak and lilo adventure. Read on for more on their river trip and how YOU can win this great experience. Picture: Sarah Dirsuwei Storm s River kayak and lilo adventure It s hard wanting to travel the whole world. There is just so much to see and do that it is overwhelming. Where do you even start? Our family has done a lot. Probably a lot more than most families. And yet we have barely even touched the tip of the iceberg, even just in the Eastern Cape. To make things a bit more concrete, and to help our travel dreams manifest into reality, we sat as a family and chatted about what each of us would like to do in 2017. We wrote a letter to the Universe putting our goals and dreams out there in the hope that they turn into something real. The Universe was quick to respond and within a few weeks of publishing out letter, we were on our way to our first adventure &#8211; Number 15. Something Wet. First up on our 2017 adventure experiences was a family kayak and lilo adventure with Untouched Adventures up the Storms River Gorge. We prefer to give each other experiences instead of things and this was Ralph s present for his New Year birthday. Paddling up a pristine gorge on bright red kayaks and heavy duty lilos sounded incredible and Tsitsikamma National Park is a mere 90 minute drive from Port Elizabeth. The kayak and lilo adventure was truly out-of-this-world AMAZING! We booked the first time slot at 9am, and headed down to the beach on a perfectly sunny summer day. We were issued with aqua booties and wet suits and geared up before joining our guides Romano and Everton and the rest of our group for a pre-session briefing. When the sea is calm, the kayaks depart right from the small beach below the old restaurant, but as the swells were huge and angry, we first hiked to the jetty below the suspension bridge. &nbsp; Hiking to the river mouth Picture: Sarah Dirsuwei Once on our double kayaks, we paddled out below the suspension bridge the swells were enormous! Then we made our way up river through the narrow gorge, to a cave full of squeaking bats. Romano explained that this was where the sailors from logging ships would camp while they waited for the timber from forests up river to arrive on rafts before being transferred to ships and sailed around the world. The cave was full of squeaking bats Picture: Sarah Dirsuwei We continued up river, under towering cliffs with water dripping from bright green moss on the red cliff faces. All too soon we arrived at the first set of rocky rapids, where we tethered our boats and transferred to heavy duty lilos. Picture: Sarah Dirsuwei Picture: Sarah Dirsuwei Oh my word, what fun! Our age difference melted away as we paddled in the dark water and by the time we were trying to stand up on our lilos (most of us failing spectacularly), we were just a bunch of kids laughing and splashing in the river. Smiles all around as we lilo surfed, jumped off the cliffs into a deep rock pool, played with a cormorant that was swimming with us and lay back with our head in our hands, floating down river while gazing at the magnificent vertical rock faces towering above us. Lilo surfing is not as easy as it looks! Picture: Sarah Dirsuwei Cliff jumping into the Storms River Picture: Sarah Dirsuwei Most of our group were from overseas a trio of friends from Sweden, a young USA couple and a family from Italy. It s funny how people fly across the globe to do this sort of adventure and those of us who live right here often don t bother. The overseas crowd all told us how lucky we are to live in such a magnificent country, with so much to do right on our doorstep and we wholeheartedly agreed with them. We are so lucky to live here! Picture: Sarah Dirsuwei How to win For a chance to win two tickets for a Kayak and Lilo Adventure with Untouched Adventures valued at R1 000, SMS the word UNTOUCHED to the number 41893 and include your name. (SMSes should be kept to a maximum of 320 characters at a charge of R1.50 per 160 characters. Free minutes do not apply and errors are billed. The cut-off for entries is noon on Tuesday, February 14 and the winners will be notified shortly thereafter.) Fact Sheet Book your Kayak and Lilo Adventure with Untouched Adventures Tickets cost R500 per person (February 2017) and the tour lasts 2-3 hours, departing at 9am, 11am, 12 noon, 2pm and 3pm daily. You also need to pay the park entrance fee for Garden Route National Park (Refer to SANParks website for current tariffs ). See more from the Dirsuweis at chasingtherainbow.net &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share