Uber users are being warned to remain vigilant following an incident in which a man was robbed by someone posing as a driver in Port Elizabeth. A part-time student was lured into a vehicle he thought was an Uber cab, in a robbery ploy at the weekend. Despite it being an isolated incident, police have been briefed to monitor whether a similar trend of robberies is emerging. The student, 27, who asked not to be named, said he was held hostage and driven around for three hours on Saturday night. He was forced to supply his bank card and pin number. The man, who is from Queenstown but living in Port Elizabeth, was robbed after getting into a VW Polo when the driver arrived at the Bridge Street Brewery at about 11pm. I had been drinking with mates and watching the cricket, the part-time student said. I arranged an Uber cab to get home and walked outside to wait. A white Polo was parked at the top and when the driver saw me, he came up next to me and asked if I was waiting for an Uber cab. I said yes, and he claimed to be my driver. We then drove off. The student was then driven to St George s Park. The next thing there were two guys outside and one put a gun into my side, he said. During the robbery, the men drove him around, demanding all his possessions. I did everything they wanted. After driving around for a while, they dropped me and the one guy on the side of the road and the other two drove off. But then they came back, forced us back in and drove us around some more, he said. They eventually dropped me off in Park Drive and I ran down the street screaming for help, but no one came. I walked to the Mount Road Police Station. The man said R2 000 had been withdrawn from his bank account. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the case was being investigated. She urged anyone waiting for an Uber taxi to make sure the details sent to their cellphone matched the details of the car that arrived. Uber Africa spokeswoman Samantha Allenberg said she was not aware of the incident. The Uber app gives details of the driver as soon as a rider accepts a trip, Allenberg said. People should check the driver s name and photo, car type and the licence plate number. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share