Rugby legend Joost van der Westhuizen is still fighting for his life after being rushed to hospital in a critical condition on Saturday morning his J9 Foundation said in an update on Facebook. Joost is still fighting in hospital everyone. Keep praying for him the foundation said. It urged his fans and the media to only follow its page for updates saying there were a lot of rumours but that it would keep posting the correct details. The foundation earlier requested that family of the the 45-year-old former Springbok rugby captain and scrumhalf be respected during this difficult time. The family and friends of Joost ask that you all pray for Joost. He was taken to hospital earlier today and is in a critical condition the foundation said. Please keep Joost in your prayers it added. Van der Westhuizen s estranged wife Amor Vittone asked fans on her Facebook page to pray for the former Springbok. &#8220;Ek vra namens die hele familie asb om Joost in jul gebede te hou vandag. Ons almal is by mekaar vandag. Joost ons is lief vir jou!&#8221; (I&#8217;m asking on behalf of the whole family to keep Joost in your prayers. We are all together today &#8221; she wrote alongside a picture of herself with Joost and their two children Vittone wrote. Van der Westhuizen who has been fighting motor neuron disease since 2011 played 89 Tests for the Springboks between 1993 and 2003. He was diagnosed with a form of Motor Neuron Disease in 2011 and recent pictures shared by his estranged wife showed he has been deteriorating. Two weeks ago it was revealed that he was now on an oxygen machine. At the time it was reported he was on the machine to survive but Van der Westhuizen downplayed these reports saying he was &#8220;doing well under the circumstances&#8221;. He confirmed to magazine that he had been on an oxygen machine for about two months but did not want the news to be public because he didn&#8217;t want to &#8220;spook&#8221; his daughter. Since being diagnosed the 45-year-old former rugby star has spoken publicly about his illness insisting that he will fight until the end. Family members have told TshisaLIVE that Joost&#8217;s manager and friend is in the ICU ward with him at a Johannesburg hospital. Rugby legend Joost van der Westhuizen is still fighting for his life after being being rushed to hospital in a critical condition on Saturday morning his J9 Foundation said in an update on Facebook. Joost is still fighting in hospital everyone. Keep praying for him the foundation said. It urged his fans and the media to only follow its page for updates saying there were a lot of rumours but that it would keep posting the correct details. The foundation earlier requested that family of the the 45-year-old former Springbok rugby captain and scrumhalf be respected during this difficult time. The family and friends of Joost ask that you all pray for Joost. He was taken to hospital earlier today and is in a critical condition the foundation said. Please keep Joost in your prayers it added. Van der Westhuizen s estranged wife Amor Vittone asked fans on her Facebook page to pray for the former Springbok. &#8220;Ek vra namens die hele familie asb om Joost in jul gebede te hou vandag. Ons almal is by mekaar vandag. Joost ons is lief vir jou!&#8221; (I&#8217;m asking on behalf of the whole family to keep Joost in your prayers. We are all together today &#8221; she wrote alongside a picture of herself with Joost and their two children Vittone wrote. Van der Westhuizen who has been fighting motor neuron disease since 2011 played 89 Tests for the Springboks between 1993 and 2003. He was diagnosed with a form of Motor Neuron Disease in 2011 and recent pictures shared by his estranged wife showed he has been deteriorating. Two weeks ago it was revealed that he was now on an oxygen machine. At the time it was reported he was on the machine to survive but Van der Westhuizen downplayed these reports saying he was &#8220;doing well under the circumstances&#8221;. He confirmed to magazine that he had been on an oxygen machine for about two months but did not want the news to be public because he didn&#8217;t want to &#8220;spook&#8221; his daughter. Since being diagnosed the 45-year-old former rugby star has spoken publicly about his illness insisting that he will fight until the end. Family members have told TshisaLIVE that Joost&#8217;s manager and friend is in the ICU ward with him at a Johannesburg hospital. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share