In response to D R Galloway s letter, Frail and elderly should be housed in the community (February 7), I would hardly call those admitted to frail care due to severely deteriorated health the privileged few. Those of us who have our health are the privileged ones. No one wants to have a stroke and become disabled, or suffer an illness or disability and become bedridden and dependent on others for all bodily functions. I work for an NGO that does not provide frail care, but works as best we can to keep older persons active in the community. With 35 years in the sector, I feel I can comment with confidence on aspects of the letter. Many of the residents in the frail care centres have no families. Who is to care for them then? Many of them only receive R1 500 pension. How do they afford to stay in the community when they are bedridden? I challenge Galloway to visit the centre and see what 24-hour care entails. These are not just old people or disabled people, these are people who can do nothing or very little for themselves. We see the families who are on the brink of despair and breakdown as they struggle to provide 24-hour care to a full-grown person in their home. How many family members can, single-handed, lift and change the nappy of an adult person, bath and feed him or her, and take verbal and physical abuse from a confused adult? How many can have someone stay at home to provide care or have enough means to employ up to three carers for the task? Admission to these two facilities can only be accessed by those who have failed to gain admission via three other applications to ordinary homes. Ordinary frail care homes are given a subsidy of R1 700 to care for a social pensioner. This is hopelessly inadequate and while it has been fought for years, the subsidy fails to be increased to a reasonable amount. Yes, the R16 000 is questionable and still needs to be answered two years ago it was R8 000. The Gauteng psychiatric care facility was getting R9 000 per patient. However, with the cost of salaries, care and the services on offer, I doubt that much profit was made. Subsides have been static since 2007. My NGO gets R200 per month per member living in the community to provide services, with R70 out of the R200 supposed to go to providing a midday meal for the entire month. Hardly conducive to helping an older frail person stay in the community! You may consider it unAfrican to dump those who are frail and aged (only the frail can be admitted as being old does not qualify you for admission), but it is also unAfrican to abuse the elderly and that happens, especially around Sassa grant payment time. Who can afford to give up their employment to stay at home and care for an older person who has an income of R1 500 then to sustain the both of you? Adult nappies cost R 1 100 per month. There is not much over after that. It is internationally acknowledged that 1% of the population will require some form of frail care in a place of care. Please, D R Galloway, visit a centre and educate yourself. Visit someone who is on the waiting list and hear the cries of the family, just as I have to do daily. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share