Andre Tieman was sentenced to two life terms of imprisonment for murdering and raping 14 year old Micaylen Hendricks. Picture: Eugene Coetzee/The Herald A young man who raped and killed a teenage girl in Uitenhage last year and hid her body in his house for four days was sentenced to two life terms of imprisonment yesterday. Andre Tieman, 22, showed no emotion as the Port Elizabeth High Court imposed the maximum sentence of a total of 51 years in prison for the rape and murder of 14-year-old Micaylen Hendricks, as well as the theft of her cellphone. He pleaded guilty on Monday to luring Micaylen to his shack in Kamesh, Uitenhage, on April 27, where he raped and then strangled her. Tieman said he wrapped her petite body in the purple blanket she carried with her and then hid it under a plank, not far from where he slept for the next four nights. Police made the gruesome discovery on May 1, after they traced Micaylen s missing cellphone to Tieman s shack. Yesterday, Micaylen s dad, Milton Luddick, said while no form of punishment would bring back his daughter, his family had received the best possible outcome as far as the law was concerned. His wife, Desire, was too emotional to attend proceedings and was represented in court by community members, who sobbed with relief as Judge Irma Schoeman read out her sentence. I am just glad this part of the process is over and we will now have to try and move forward with our lives, Luddick said. He said his traumatised wife had refused to hear any of the details of their daughter s death. Schoeman said in her judgment: The community is fed up with acts of violence against women and children. Despite days and weeks being dedicated to this cause, this type of offence is not on the [decline]. She said despite pleading guilty, Tieman had shown no remorse for taking someone s daughter or sister away. She found the evidence against him was overwhelming. Schoeman said she hoped a life sentence would give some sort of hope back to the devastated, tight-knit Kamesh community, who had all helped in the search for Micaylen when she was reported missing. Tyres were burnt in the streets and Tieman s shack was burnt to the ground after her body was discovered. Tieman had targeted the shy, church-loving Micaylen as she returned from the corner shop where she had bought nappies for her baby brother and biscuits. Schoeman sentenced Tieman to life in prison for the murder, life for the rape and one year for the theft of Micaylen s cellphone. The sentences will not run concurrently and Tieman will only be eligible to apply for parole after serving 25 years. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share