UP FOR CHALLENGE: Scrumhalf Ricky Schroeder says the competitive nature of the Southern Kings players will boost the side s chances. Picture: RICHARD HUGGARD Team members vie for sought-after spots in Super Rugby squad A fiercely competitive atmosphere for prized berths in the starting lineup will help to bring out the best in the team, scrumhalf Ricky Schroeder said. The bouncy No 9, one of the contenders for a spot in the Kings match-day squad to face the Jaguares on Saturday, believes the team are well prepared. Southern Kings head coach Deon Davids will name his team to take on the men from Argentina on Thursday. One great aspect is the competitive nature within the squad, but we remain close mates, Schroeder said on Radio 2000. In the build-up we had a wonderful camp in Port Alfred, which was another chance for us to bond. It is of the utmost importance that we do not lose the competitive nature within the squad. We are forming a close brotherhood, but we are also challenging each other to do better all the time. The other scrumhalves in the squad are Louis Schreuder, Johannes Steyn and Rudi van Rooyen. For me it is a massive honour to be able to play Super Rugby, Schroeder said. This is the competition you want to be part of because you are competing against the best in the world. I am looking forward to the challenge of comparing myself to the best to see where I am at. The culture the Kings coaches have created gets one up for the challenge. Super Rugby is a dream for everyone, so we are really excited to be part of this set-up. Schroeder is hoping big crowds come out to support the Kings at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium. When we hear the crowd chanting it gets us excited, so we want to encourage fans to come out and get behind us. He feels a good pre-season will ensure the Kings are battle-ready for the arduous competition. I think coming here from day one, the plan was put out by our conditioning coach, Nardus Niewoudt, Schroeder said. Everything was very professional and the luxury of having a pre-season has made it a bit different and we realise the importance of it. I feel we are in a good place but, as the coaches said, from a rugby perspective there are things after the warm-up games that we need to work on. We are very fortunate to have a lot of experienced campaigners in the squad, [their] influence is vital going forward into the tournament. Schroeder joined the EP Kings for the Currie Cup last year and was promoted to captain after Schalk Ferreira was injured early in the season. Schroeder has strong views on what makes a good scrumhalf. A scrumhalf needs to make decisions very quickly and then play as quickly as possible and clean the base of the scrum. The kicking game is very important and so is taking pressure off the No 10. Coach Deon Davids has told his players they must step up and give their very best if they want to own a jersey in the Kings Super Rugby starting lineup this season. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share