Soccer, already the most popular sport on the planet, is set to expand its reach even further. Fifa s announcement that the World Cup will be increased from 32 to 48 teams from 2026 has been met with a mixed response. Now there will be more opportunities for lesser nations to strut their stuff on the world stage, but some feel this may dilute the quality of soccer s showpiece event. Fifa, clearly sensitive to allegations that the move was designed merely to increase revenue for the tournament, has gone on a charm offensive. There is also talk Fifa president Gianni Infantino drove the change through to increase his global popularity and ensure a longer term of office. Infantino wants the World Cup to be more inclusive and he says soccer is more than just the powerhouse continents of Europe and South America. He was at the forefront, as Uefa general secretary, of stretching the European Championship from 16 to 24 finalists last year. The revamped World Cup will feature 80 matches, rather the current 64, but will still fall within the 32-day schedule courtesy of a new four-games-a-day format in the opening round. It has been decided that in the initial stage there will be 16 groups comprising three teams each. This guarantees the teams a minimum of two games apiece, but no more than the current maximum of seven to be crowned champions. The attraction of a bigger World Cup means there will be a greater financial benefit for Fifa with revenue expected to increase by 5.29-billion (R88-billion) for a 48team tournament, giving a potential profit rise of 521million (R8-billion). Despite the positives, critics, including the powerful European clubs and coaches, have said that Fifa is tampering with a winning formula. Perhaps the most famous person to endorse the new tournament is Diego Maradona, rated as one of the greatest players to have graced the World Cup. He points out that this format will give more possibilities to more countries and that can only benefit Africa. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share