Unions force municipality to advertise vacancies internally as water losses escalate As the city battles to cut its growing water losses bill, it cannot hire more plumbers to fix leaks due to a stalemate between the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality and municipal unions. The unions want the vacancies for plumbers to be advertised and filled internally, while the metro wants to spread the net wider and move swiftly with hiring more plumbers. This comes as the city is facing a water crisis, with restrictions in place due to depleting dam levels. Councillors who sit on the infrastructure, electricity and energy portfolio committee were concerned last week that the metro was losing millions of rands due to leaks while municipal officials and the unions were at loggerheads. This was causing even further delays, the councillors said. The Bay has 28 plumbers to service the entire metro. Ideally, it should have 54 plumbers. Water distribution manager Joseph Tsatsire told councillors on Thursday that they had to advertise internally to accommodate the concerns raised by the unions. We advertised internally to capture additional people who were not captured in the last advert, he said. However, there were concerns that some of the internal staff were not necessarily qualified for the job. DA councillor Charles Garai wanted to know why the positions were advertised internally. What does that mean, internally? We are shooting ourselves in the foot here, he said. There are people out there who are qualified plumbers and we have a crisis in this city. We are wasting 40% of our water. Instead of finding ways to fix that, we look at obstacles as to why we can t do it. Tsatsire said: The truth of the matter is that there is a lot of influence from organised labour around some of these issues. So a decision was taken to accommodate some of those things. Samwu regional chairman Mqondisi Nodongwe confirmed they were unhappy with the process followed to get plumbers. We have a policy that says positions between grades 3 and 11 must be advertised internally, he said. In the policy workshop, councillors were part of that discussion; they never opposed that particular provision of the policy. The plumbers grade is 9, which means it falls between 3 and 11 and our issue is that the positions advertised are excluding a lot of people. Asked if their request to advertise internally meant there were qualified plumbers in the city s employ, Nodongwe said: They need to consider competency. The people inside have been doing this work for more than three years. If they want to know if they are competent, they must subject them to a competency test. Committee chairwoman Annette Lovemore said the discussions were sensitive and were being handled by senior municipal officials. I am aware that the executive director and his staff are busy with delicate negotiations with unions on this matter. I don t want us to say something that will interfere with those negotiations, she said. But DA councillor Masixole Zinto said as the committee they could not be held to ransom by unions. If it means we must be locked with them, let it be. We can t be held [to] ransom, we have a crisis. The whole country is in crisis; we don t have water, Zinto said. Nodongwe said yesterday: We are saying these people have the experience already in the job and they are at ETC [Eastcape Training Centre], meaning they will acquire this trade test within a reasonable time. That is where we are stuck with the employer they want to deviate from the policy. They are putting up this trade test as a barrier for internal staff who can do the job. He said they were in discussions with management. Second union Imatu could not be reached for comment yesterday. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share