If you re a local who rather likes to have the city to yourself once in a while, then the Port Elizabeth beachfront is a joy to be thoroughly savoured at this time of year. Come to think of it, us Port Elizabethans generally tend to feel downright smug come February. Though the summer holidays are but a distant memory, the weather couldn t be better and we can even make a beeline for our favourite beaches without having to fight the holidaymakers for a precious patch of sand. One such selfish opportunity came earlier this month when, hot and dusty following a five-hour drive from the Karoo, my husband, Salvelio, and I checked in at the Windermere in Humewood, just metres away from the beach. Our one-night stay was courtesy of the Mantis Collection, under whose management the 10-room luxury boutique hotel has been since late last year. Mantis, in turn, is headed by leading hotelier Adrian Gardiner, who still calls Port Elizabeth home after decades of jet-setting around the globe to build, from scratch, what is today an internationally renowned hospitality brand with a presence on seven continents. Interestingly, when Gardiner came to Port Elizabeth in the late 60s, his first employer was the McWilliams family, who own the Windermere today and on whose behalf Mantis is now managing it. The hotel in Humewood Road was established by Clive and Anne Read, owners of the Elephant House in Addo, in 2003. We were met by general manager Tanya van Vuuren, who heads a team of brand new staff put in place when the hotel re-opened under the Mantis banner in August last year. Among them are duty manager Veliswa Mtati and receptionist Khanyisa Vena who, like Van Vuuren, made us feel at home from the moment we arrived. One of the things our guests enjoy most about the hotel is that they say it feels like a home away from home , Van Vuuren said. That is how we want them to feel they should feel comfortable kicking off their shoes and relaxing on the sofas outside. Following our hot and sticky journey, it was most refreshing to stroll around the sheltered grounds, try out those heavenly sofas first-hand and contemplate a dip in the sparkling pool before unleashing ourselves on our sumptuous suite, where a chilled bottle of La Motte Sauvignon Blanc was waiting. We thought our room with its crisp linen and inviting, king-size bed was the definition of spacious, but that was before we saw the marble-clad en suite bathroom which was just about the size of our bedroom at home! After freshening up, we headed out for some sea air and a refreshing walk along the promenade, followed by lunch at Something Good. How exhilarating it was to be tourists in our own city! Our car safely parked in a lock-up garage behind the hotel, that evening we sat down to a super dinner three courses with a choice of two dishes per course prepared for us by chef Sipho Mbovane. The plan was to have it on our suite s private balcony, but unfortunately the wind had other plans so it was the dining room s equally intimate enclosed verandah instead. The hotel also has a small menu with light meals for lunch, with dinners a fairly new addition as most guests tend to eat out. Though guests are currently mostly corporate clients, the Windermere has been attracting its share of local and international travellers too, particularly over the past school holidays. Its close proximity to arguably the Bay s best beaches, not to mention some of our finest eateries and other attractions, certainly makes it a very convenient (not to mention romantic) choice. The Windermere by Mantis is at 35 Humewood Road. Bookings are on (041)582-2245 or e-mail: info@thewindermere.co.za Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share