The words I can t breathe haunt me. They were uttered 11 times by a man called Eric Garner on July 17 2014. A New York City police officer confronted Garner and accused him of selling loosies (illegally-acquired loose cigarettes). Garner told him he had had enough of the constant harassment about this when he was in fact not selling cigarettes. The officer, Daniel Pantaleo, grabbed Garner around the neck and took him in a chokehold. He then pushed Garner s face into the ground while four other policemen forced Garner to remain on the ground. I can t breathe, Garner called out. He said it again. And again. Eleven times. The police did not help him, they did not offer resuscitation. He was pronounced dead on arrival at a hospital about an hour later. Pantaleo is still a free man. He earned R1.3-million last year as a desk police officer. I was reminded of Garner last week as Dr Malegapuru Makgoba s report into the scandalous deaths of patients transferred by the government from Life Healthcare Esidimeni centres to many unregistered, unaccredited non-governmental organisations was released. Garner s name is known around the world. There was outrage and shame at the death of this innocent man. The protests and publicity around his case made the Black Lives Matter movement gain prominence around the globe. We were horrified by this one man s death and what it said about his society and its law enforcement agencies. We know nothing about the 94 people who died so horrifically in our places of care over the past year. Did they say I can t breathe? Did they cry, beg? Who are they? Silence is what killed the Life Esidimeni patients and silence is what will make their cases disappear. The government officials knew that by taking them to these unaccredited institutions they were putting their lives at risk. No one said a word. When they arrived in these places many of the so-called carers knew that they did not have the skills or the resources to look after them. Yet they kept quiet. Then came the killing time and the dying time. These patients had no proper medication, no water and no food. They must have cried out. They must have begged for help. They must have been agitated, being psychiatric patients. Their carers did not say a word. The neighbours did not say a word. These patients cried out into the night. I am thirsty! I am in pain! I am hungry! No one said a word. They starved to death. The carers said not a single truthful word. They stayed silent about their deaths. For months an investigation was under way. Some of the patients were still dying. Government officials could not even tell Makgoba how many were dead or dying as his investigation continued. As I write, the number 94 is still provisional . We still do not know how many exactly have died. Now the big, massive silence that damns us. Our national leadership, the president and his cabinet, have been scandalously quiet on this issue. President Zuma s spokesman, Bongani Nqgulunga, said: The president has sent his deepest condolences to all the families of the deceased. He has also welcomed the report of the health ombudsman. Wow. Anywhere else in the world the deaths of 94 patients in places sanctioned by the government would lead to whirlwind explanation and sanction by the leader of the country. Not here. In our country the scandal is swept aside, unacknowledged and unspoken. President Zuma s reaction to a spat between his favoured current public protector and the previous public protector was more intense, when he expressed outrage . Really, where has his outrage been when 94 people died on his watch? The sad truth is that in this black republic black lives do not matter. I don t think Zuma and his colleagues even observed a moment of silence for the dead patients at their cabinet lekgotla this past weekend. They don t matter. They won t matter in the future, either, unless they matter to us, the populace. Our politicians will remain indifferent to black lives unless we, the populace, start holding them accountable for their neglect and disrespect for black lives. There should be marches and protests and litigation over what happened with these 94 patients. There should be action to force politicians into action and accountability. If there is no popular action then there won t be change. Silence will continue to reign and we will have failed those patients. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share