U.S President Donald Trump Picture: Reuters/Mike Segar Iran burns flag, actor warns against fomenting hate crimes in US US President Donald Trump has denounced as disgraceful an appellate court s decision blocking his order barring US entry to refugees and nationals from seven predominantly Muslim countries. Trump reacted yesterday to Thursday s unanimous decision by the US court of appeals based in San Francisco. In an early-morning tweet the president selectively quoted from a post on Lawfare, a blog on law and national security issues. The blog post found it remarkable that the appellate panel did not even bother to cite a key US legal statute that authorises the president to suspend entry to the US of all or any class of aliens he deems detrimental to US interests. After quoting the Lawfare passage in his tweet, Trump declared the appellate court s conclusion: A disgraceful decision! Trump neglected to say that the blog he was quoting went on to conclude that the appellate court reached the correct decision in upholding a lower court judge s suspension of the ban. Lawfare said the decision was right for the simple reason that there is no cause to plunge the country into turmoil again while the courts address the merits of these matters over the next few weeks . The case is seen as likely to be appealed to the supreme court. On Thursday, shortly after the court s decision, Trump tweeted: See you in court, the security of our nation is at stake! On Thursday, Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi had asked Trump to lift the ban on people from his country travelling to the United States in the first phone call between the two leaders, the Iraqi government revealed yesterday. Abadi resisted calls from influential pro-Iranian Shi ite politicians to retaliate against the ban when it was first announced by Trump at the end of January, citing Iraq s need for US military support in the war on Islamic State. In Iran, hundreds of thousands of people rallied yesterday to swear allegiance to the clerical establishment following Trump s warning that he had put the Islamic Republic on notice , state TV reported. Carrying Death to America banners and effigies of Trump, Iranians in Tehran marched towards the Azadi ( Freedom) Square to commemorate the anniversary of Iran s 1979 Islamic Revolution that toppled the US-backed shah. Iran s most powerful authority, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, had on Tuesday called on Iranians to take part in the demonstrations to show Iran was not frightened of American threats . America and Trump cannot do a damn thing. We are ready to sacrifice our lives for our leader Khamenei, a young Iranian man told state TV. Last week, Trump put Iran on notice in reaction to a January 29 Iranian missile test and imposed fresh sanctions on individuals and entities. Iran said it would not halt its missile programme. Pragmatist President Hassan Rouhani also called on Iranians to join the rally yesterday to show their unbreakable ties with the Supreme Leader and the Islamic Republic. State television said rallies were marked by anti-US and anti-Israel slogans and the burning of US flags. On social media, many Iranians used the hashtag of #LoveBeyondFlags, urging an end to flag-burning. They also thanked Americans for opposing Trump s travel ban. Back in the US, Hollywood actor Richard Gere said the biggest crime of Trump and European right-wing populists was to equate refugees with terrorists, as it fomented hate. Speaking at the Berlin film festival where he presented his politically charged new thriller The Dinner, Gere, 67, said Trump s travel ban targeting seven Muslim-majority countries preyed on fears. The number of hate crimes in the US went up enormously as soon as Donald Trump started running for president and I think you ve seen the same thing here in Europe, he said, referring to the conservative movement around the world . Unfortunately we have leaders that stimulate fear and that fear causes us to do really terrible things. A refugee used to be someone we wanted to help. Now we re afraid of them, Gere said. The FBI in November reported that hate crimes against Muslims in the US had surged 67% in 2015 to the highest level since the aftermath of the September 11 2001 terror attacks. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share