&nbsp; Eleanor Douglas-Meyers is a crafty mom from Uitenhage who writes about DIY, parenting, natural hair care, fashion, food and fun on her blog JustEllaBella &nbsp; &nbsp; It s definitely sick baby season. My own little one is snotty and uncomfortable and some of my friend s kids are really not dealing with the change of weather too well. Moms are often not sure if they are over-reacting or under-reacting to a child s symptoms. Should I self-medicate or get them to a doctor is a common question on parenting groups. I got this very valuable advice from sister Teresa Hayward, a private registered midwife specialising in Neonatal Intensive Care and decided that I simply had to share. Questions to ask yourself before taking your baby to the doctor: 1 Has baby got a temperature? Anything above 37.8 is a fever. Babies under six weeks must be seen by a doctor before giving anything, babies under six months must be seen by a doctor but you can give something first. If their temp comes down, then you can wait till morning, if it doesn t, then get to the doctor straight away. Remember any temperature higher than 38.3 is not related to teething or vaccinations. 2 Is baby feeding? If baby is not feeding or is taking in less than half their normal daily volume then they should be seen by a doctor. 3 Does your baby have wet nappies? Take note of how many wet nappies your child has. Look at the colour of the urine and whether there is blood in the nappy (girls under six weeks can have a bloody discharge). Remember babies can also get urinary tract infections and urine should not be dark and strong smelling. 4 Is your baby vomiting? If they are vomiting large amounts after consecutive feeds and if the vomit is green, see a doctor. 5 Is your baby unusually drowsy? See a doctor. 6 Does your baby appear floppy and is she/he focusing visually? See a doctor. 7 Is your baby having difficulty breathing? wheezing on out breathes, flaring nostrils, rattily cough, runny nose that is yellow or green. See a doctor. 8 Does your baby have circulation problems or blue nails? See a doctor. 9 Does your baby have diahorrea? See a doctor. Keep an eye out for excessive dirty nappies. 10 Is your child dehydrated? This usually goes with no drinking, lethargy, no wees, vomiting and diarrhea. There are a number of things that a clinic nurse can assist you with and save you a lot of money: thrush nappy rash feeding problems for example breastfeeding, and formula and introduction to solids colic and reflux constipation teething If you go to the doctor: Be able to tell him the symptoms you are concerned about and what you have seen. Know what the last temperature reading was. Note what meds have you given, when and how much. Note how long baby has been sick. Let the doctor know if baby is on any other medication, such as for teething, colic, reflux (these can influence what is prescribed). Does baby have allergies? Note when last did baby eat, wee and poo/ vomit. Be careful of changing doctors often. Every time you go to a different doctor it can affect your baby s treatment as they don t know your child s history. See more from Eleanor at JustEllaBella. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share