The opening of the fourth session of the fifth legislature of the Eastern Cape last Friday in Bhisho was a highly dignified occasion. The invited guests came out in big numbers to listen to premier Phumulo Masualle deliver his state of the province address (Sopa). The event itself portrayed a perfect mood for everyone. Everything was well laid out, with no hitches. People took their seats as per the instruction from the invitations. The programme started at the set time, 11am. By 11.05am, the premier was on the podium; an hour later the proceedings were done. When Masualle stood up to speak he asserted himself as a leader of all people in the province. He showed respect, maturity and political refinement. The tone of his speech and the choice of his words showed a man who was ready and willing to listen to the cries of his people, with a readiness to rectify shortcomings, instead of manufacturing litanies of tired excuses. I was relieved when we were spared the political immaturity, abusiveness and general malaise that the ANC leaders have been notoriously known for in the last nine years. Many of the guests have attended almost all the Sopas since the advent of democracy and the creation of provincial legislatures. Some people there were overindulging in a world of nostalgia, relishing anecdotes of the days when South Africa was the most promising piece of land on earth. Some seem to be holding on to the illusion of some meaning or worth in their lives. Those were the golden years of Nelson Mandela s rule. Then it was thought that the gap between the rich and the poor would narrow, corruption was not tolerated, and it was also hoped that we should all live in harmony, security and comfort. To his credit, Masualle tried to raise the people s spirits with his statesmanlike posture. He seemed to have read the prevalent mood in the country well: a mood of people who have seen their hopes smashed like eggs against a cement wall. The current mood of people is that they are fed up with clowning, sardonic and childish politicians who do not appreciate the social gravity that the nation is confronted with. This urgency of the situation is highlighted more in our province, where nearly half of our pupils were betrayed by the political system. Many of the pupils have no prospects of gainful employment. So the mood of the people inside and outside the marquee was that of people who had no time to listen to sensational junk. Fifteen minutes of Masualle s speech was dedicated to talking about education. This was the best sign of showing that the leadership of the province was aware of the calamity that befell children of our province in their final examinations. The provision of quality education is central to the task of building a province characterised by a high standard of living of its citizens. It was with this in mind that, at the beginning of the term, we undertook to create better access to quality education as one of the apex priorities, he said. To achieve his goal, he called for collective concern from parents, industry and citizens. The premier lamented the poor quality of learning and teaching in the province. Hence he spoke of the rationalisation and realignment of small and unviable schools. To achieve this, Masualle said, at the beginning of 2016, we tabled a three-year education transformation plan whose objective will be to increase functional schools . He told his guests that between January and June 2015, up to 2 343 teachers had exited the system 47% of whom had resigned. He was of the view that these resignations impacted negatively on the teacher-pupil ratios as per accepted norms and standards. He was upbeat about the fact that no lost school days were experienced last year due to any civil or worker-related protest action. Masualle said the decrease in disruptions was a sign that stakeholders, parents and teachers were united in ensuring that learning took place with minimal disruptions. The premier highlighted the success of the no fee schools last year, which benefited 1.5 million pupils and the school nutrition programme for qualifying pupils. Other achievements included the provision of water to more schools and the provision of sanitation facilities to schools, an improvement from 47 schools in 2014 to 287 schools currently. The premier concluded his education report by warning that in spite of the package of interventions we have made to date, our education system still needs a lot of intervention . He promised to implement what he termed the Provincial Development Plan, started in 2014, in line with the National Development Plan, whose broad strategic priorities he said were: Better access to quality education; Promotion of better healthcare; Stimulation of rural development, land reform and food security; Transformation of the economy; Strengthening the developmental state and good governance; Intensification of the fight against crime; Integrated human settlements. Masualle s linking himself with O R Tambo s legacy was plausible, unlike people who spew racist, divisive and tribalism on the one hand, while pegging themselves to such an iconic figure on the other. It made sense when he promised to co-ordinate a year-long programme of activities in honour of Tambo s centenary, with the theme of unity in action . Tambo s anniversary will be characterised by highlighting key themes associated with him, such as human rights, African solidarity, the emancipation of women and the commitment to the advancement of the youth. The theme of revolutionary intellectualism, as epitomised by Tambo, will shield our people from the intellectual delinquency that has been displayed in the most appalling way in the last nine years. One could start to give Masualle the benefit of the doubt when he says, As I stand here today, I m happy to report that on the whole, the state of our province is sound . Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share