Micaylen Hendricks. Picture Supplied. Father tells of heartbreak after daughter s vicious rape, murder A desperate father was none the wiser when his daughter s killer looked him in the eye and lied about the missing 14-year-old girl s whereabouts last year. But yesterday, the devastating truth unfolded in the Port Elizabeth High Court as Andre Tieman, 22, finally faced up to Micaylen Hendricks s family and admitted raping and strangling the petite teenager in Uitenhage in April. He then wrapped Micaylen in the purple blanket she carried with her and stashed her body under a plank in his shack, where he spent four nights before the gruesome discovery was eventually made on May 1. Micaylen s dad, Milton Luddick, testified to the heartbreak his family had suffered as a result of her death, saying that her mom, Desire, was so traumatised she could not attend the court proceedings. Tieman pleaded guilty to raping and murdering Micaylen and then robbing her of a cellphone. In a detailed plea explanation read to the court by his defence attorney, Robin O Brien, Tieman said he had watched Micaylen walk to a corner shop in Kamesh on the morning of April 27. Tieman said he saw Micaylen leave the shop a short while later, carrying the nappies she had bought for her baby brother and a packet of biscuits. I approached her and told her to come to my shack so I could give her a cellphone that I had repaired for her mother, he said. When we arrived at my shack, I threw the deceased to the floor. She was screaming as I undressed her. Tieman said after raping Micaylen, he strangled her. He was angry because she had made a noise and fought back. After wrapping her naked body in the blanket, he hid her corpse. When news of the girl s disappearance spread, Tieman was one of those questioned about her whereabouts. Taking the stand in aggravation of sentence, Luddick said the closeknit community had assisted in the search for his daughter. They had been angry and burnt tyres in the streets. They were desperate for revenge. He said he had known Tieman for years as a member of the community and had trusted him. He was shocked to discover his involvement in the murder. I had asked him [at the time] if he knew anything and he said no. I believed him, Luddick said. He described his daughter as quiet and shy, and said she had loved going to church. The cyber crimes unit managed to trace Micaylen s phone to Tieman, who, on questioning by the police, led them to her body on May 1. State advocate Garth Baartman asked that the minimum sentence of life in prison be imposed. He said Tieman showed no remorse and simply pleaded guilty because the evidence against him was too strong. Even Tieman s attorney said he had battled to find substantial and compelling circumstances to persuade the court to deviate from a sentence of life in prison. This is an atrocious attack on an innocent child, and the great sadness here is that these incidents are not rare, O Brien said. The sentence will be handed down today. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share