Ricardo Kiewiets Picture: Supplied Family and friends of a Uitenhage rugby player are in shock after the rising sports star died shortly after a game at the weekend. Gardens Rugby Club player Ricardo Kiewiets, 26, from Daleview in Despatch, is believed to have suffered a heart attack within an hour of the match ending. His death stunned the Nelson Mandela Bay rugby fraternity. The Uitenhage club played against East London s Cambridge Rugby Club at the Eastern Cape Super 12 rugby tournament held at the Derrick Ferreira Stadium in Uitenhage on Saturday afternoon, winning the game 46-7. Kiewiets played mainly as a wing, but played at fullback in this game, scoring three tries. Devastated Gardens coach Ronnie Korkee said Kiewiets had been socialising at a friend s house which they call the clubhouse with fellow teammates and other players about an hour after the game, when he collapsed. Kiewiets s brother, Wendall Lindoor, 39, said Kiewiets had complained of chest pain after the match. Straight after the game, he [Kiewiets] came to my house to chat, Lindoor said. He was complaining of chest pain and went to lie down for a while. I wanted to take him to hospital but he had already called his friends to fetch him [to go to the clubhouse] . . . I never thought anything like this could happen, we are just so shocked. The whole community here in Daleview as well as the rugby community is just shocked by this. Korkee said Kiewiets had been standing outside the house with an energy sports drink in his hand when he collapsed. Everyone was standing around talking and chatting when, the next thing, he just collapsed. Everyone ran over when he started going into what I think were convulsions. It was very sudden and really happened out of nowhere. We initially thought it was nothing serious and that he had just fainted. Only after a few minutes did it sink in that this was very serious we were all just so shocked that he dropped and went completely limp. Everyone was assisting and even people with medical knowledge began to get worried. We called the ambulance but it did not arrive quickly enough so his teammates put him in a car and chased to the hospital. Korkee said doctors and medics at Uitenhage Provincial Hospital had tried their best to help Kiewiets, to no avail. At this stage, no one knows what caused this but we suspect it was a heart attack. Korkee said Kiewiets had been a key figure in rugby development in the Uitenhage area. This is a great loss for everyone, he said. Lindoor said he and Kiewiets had lost their parents in 2012 and all they had was each other. I really looked up to him. He lived for rugby . . . I don t know how we are going to cope without my brother, Lindoor said. EP Rugby vice-president Freddie Makoki said Kiewiets had been an up-and-coming rugby star. Everyone is devastated, he was a promising player and this is a great loss to us, Makoki said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share