Cops probe killing of more than 90 rhinos Three suspects allegedly caught red-handed with a rhino horn outside Grahamstown last year could be linked to a countrywide poaching syndicate responsible for the slaughter of more than 90 rhinos. According to police, since the trio s arrest in June last year there has not been a single incident of rhino poaching in South Africa involving darting. The men s upcoming trial will be the first of its kind in South Africa, with a forensic dart gun testing system similar to that of a firearm ballistics system being used to link specific darts to the guns used in poachings. Jabulani Ndlovu, 38, and Sikhumbuzo Ndlovu, 37, who both live in Port Elizabeth, and Forget Ndlovu, 40, of George they are not related were apprehended at the Makana Resort outside Grahamstown for the alleged possession of a rhino horn worth an estimated R1.2-million. The horn was cut off a white rhino bull poached on the Buckland s Game Reserve. In what is expected to be a gripping trial, police and prosecutors will paint a picture of a highly organised syndicate which travels the country killing and dehorning rhinos. In an affidavit submitted to court in November, Stock Theft and Endangered Species Unit detective Captain Morne Viljoen says the men are the prime suspects in 40 rhino killings in the Eastern Cape as well as about 50 in KwaZulu-Natal, five in Limpopo and four in the Southern Cape. While little is known about how the horn was smuggled out of South Africa, all three have made several trips to Zimbabwe in recent years. The dart gun confiscated during the raid has already allegedly been linked to several poachings across the country in which darts and the lethal drug M99 were used. While the men were in custody, the Hoedspruit Magistrate s Court issued warrants of arrest for them after they were linked to the killing of two rhinos in January last year. According to the preliminary investigation, the trio are the suspected foot soldiers of the operation carrying out the actual poaching while the buyer and other members are unknown. The court documents tell of suspected fake passports, rental vehicles being used in the poaching, and how the poachers visit the targeted reserve as guests before killing the rhinos. In some cases, electronic evidence allegedly places the suspects at some of the scenes. Based on the evidence already gathered, the Asset Forfeiture Unit raided Jabulani s luxury Lovemore Heights house to seize assets believed to be the ill-gotten gains of the illegal rhino trade. Shortly after the raid, the men applied for bail but it was turned down. The breakthrough came two years after the Stock Theft and Endangered Species Unit was ordered to take the lead in all fresh rhino poachings, while the Organised Crime wing of the Hawks was sidelined to only advise or assist the unit on request. Viljoen has been working around the clock with the Department of Environmental Affairs Green Scorpions and other police divisions since the arrest of the three men. Specialist environmental crimes prosecutor Advocate Bucks Coetzee will be prosecuting after the trial is transferred to the Grahamstown High Court. Viljoen said in his affidavit: My investigations into approximately 20 other similar Eastern Cape poaching cases, involving some 40 rhinos poached since 2009, have revealed thus far that the three accused have probably been responsible for a number, if not all, of these poaching incidents as well. He said the men could possibly be linked to other cases, but they were still liaising with investigators from other provinces to obtain more details. I have information that the three accused are also suspects in similar poaching cases in KwaZulu-Natal [about 20 cases involving some 50 rhinos], Limpopo [three cases involving five rhinos] and Southern Cape [three cases involving four rhinos], Viljoen said. The preliminary evidence suggested they operated as a very organised syndicate. The men will appear in the Grahamstown Magistrate s Court on March 15, when a date will be set for the trial in the high court. Last week, Eastern Cape Economic Development, Environmental Affairs and Tourism MEC Sakhumzi Somyo said preventative measures were still being explored to curb further poaching. It is clear poachers are not letting up on their evil deeds, he said. Their actions will continue to be met with appropriate responses from us and our partners. Endangered Wildlife Trust s (EWT s) Wildlife in Trade Programme training coordinator Ashleigh Dore said South Africa was in crisis due to illegal wildlife trade. The rhino poaching crisis has demonstrated that there is no single solution to addressing the illegal wildlife trade, Dore said. Poaching is also perceived to be a low-risk, high-reward activity. At the EWT, we believe it is essential to implement interventions at several stages in the poaching and wildlife trade chain to reach the various role-players, Dore said. Save the Rhino spokeswoman Katherine Johnston said poaching had increased in KwaZulu-Natal as poachers targeted reserves outside the Kruger National Park. She said arresting poachers only made a difference long-term if they did not get bail and received tough sentences. In the long-term, poachers on the ground are relatively easily replaced, Johnston said. They are acting on the orders of a criminal network. Ideally, these arrests would lead to making prosecutions further up the chain. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share