Thamsanqa Sangweni Picture: SowetanLIVE Captain Thamsanqa Sangweni has promised an all-round improvement when Chippa United lock horns with Mamelodi Sundowns in a potentially mouthwatering Premier Soccer League encounter at the Loftus Versfeld Stadium tonight. This will be the second time that the two sides have clashed within two weeks. On Valentine s Day, Chippa held Sundowns to a 1-1 draw at a packed the Sisa Dukashe Stadium in Mdantsane. But it was Friday s 2-2 draw with Lamontville Golden Arrows that saw coach Dan Malesela seething and demanding that his charges man up tonight. Sangweni said they were up to the challenge. I think everyone was disappointed with that game, especially us players after we drew 2-2. I think we have all learnt from that game, he said. In [tonight s] game we have to do things differently. As players we will not disappoint. We have to go the extra mile so that we get positive results, not just against Sundowns but also going forward. However, doing things differently might be easier said than done, as the defending champions have been in mean mood, dispatching every side in front of them. Pitso Mosimane is expected to field all his star players like Hlompho Kekana and Khama Billiat, who were rested for the first leg game with Chippa, as he hopes to turn the games in hand into maximum points. This was on display when the African champions beat Bidvest Wits 2-0 on Saturday. But Sangweni said that did not concern them. We have to improve because when you look at our situation in the log standings, we don t have enough points, he said. Everyone must rise to the occasion so that we get good results. The Chilli Boys are ninth on the log with 21 points after 18 games, while the Brazilians are fifth with 32 points from 14 outings. Three points will guarantee that Chippa are back in the top eight. But a draw on the road would not be a bad result for the Port Elizabeth-based outfit. However, Sangweni said they will go for broke. Playing against Sundowns will not be easy because they play a similar brand of football. We have to outsmart them, he said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share