Mazizi Msutu Picture: City of Champions Millions of rands from the city s coffers were spent on splashy legacy events and harebrained record-breaking attempts in Nelson Mandela Bay in the past three years without any detailed financial accounts given to council. But councillors this week demanded to know how each cent of the R20.1-million given to City of Champions was spent, lashing out at municipal officials for providing a flimsy report. Reports on the contracted company s expenditure on the project have for years been withheld from council committees. City of Champions was hired in December 2014 to make the Bay the first metro in the world to hold the most world records simultaneously in three years, while building social cohesion. During this time the company, however, seems to have bankrolled lavish spending. The bank account into which the municipal funding was deposited was used by City of Champions boss, Port Elizabeth businessman Mazizi Msutu, 44, to pay for a lavish lifestyle. In response, Msutu said the company s expenditure of the fees it had earned on the project was of no concern to anyone. An investigation by Weekend Post has uncovered how artwork, hotels, an overseas holiday, fancy whisky and restaurants with one bill topping R20 000 are just some of the luxuries the company contracted to do the work splashed on. This was revealed by internal e-mails, municipal payment vouchers, invoices, project reports, cash-flow budgets and financial statements scrutinised by Weekend Post. Councillors, who sat on a sports, recreation, arts and culture committee on Tuesday, were furious they were only given a report listing events and not how much money had been spent. DA councillor Renaldo Gouws said at the meeting most of the events had just been used and abused to make up numbers. This Divas in Spring Activation at Finnezz on September 2, it s a blatant lie. This was not advertised I am quite familiar with the owner of Finnezz, Gouws said. Also at the meeting, ANC councillor Xola Sabani said: As the ANC we are asking ourselves how did we miss the invites to these events? If corruption is found here, it must be dealt with. Events were held across the city, with a few listing NMMU, Finnezz and Cubana as venues. Finnezz co-owner Johan Reeder The largest group doing the Macarena dance formed part of the festivals. At Tuesday s committee meeting, councillors demanded a more detailed account for the next meeting. DA councillor Margaret de Andrade said they could not accept a report without comparing it to how much had been spent. I am in full support of promoting nation building, social cohesion, but I want to know what did the people of this metro benefit. The report says a total 113 events were held. We know a lot of those were failed events and had to be redone. You cannot claim to fame on 113 events if you had to do them over, she said. Some of the lavish spending from the account included: At least R53 279 on restaurants in Port Elizabeth, East London and Johannesburg; Hotels in Port Elizabeth such as the Kelway and Radisson Blu were paid about R81 438; At least R56 028 at ritzy lodgings such as The Da Vinci, The Maslow and The Michelangelo all in Johannesburg; Artwork worth R23 600 purchased at the popular Galerie Noko in Russell Road; R54 050 spent at up-market Rosebank boutique Sun Goddess; and Apple products worth R53 491 bought from an iStore. Within weeks of the first R3.2-million tranche landing in the bank account of Impact Leisure Investments, which trades as City of Champions, on December 29 2014, Msutu paid himself at least R327 000. Msutu is the only director of Impact Leisure Investments and three sources confirmed he was the only one who accessed the company s bank account which was constantly topped up with municipal money. A progress report for the municipality from 2015 states City of Champions spent R2-million on medals dished out for world record attempts. But it is not clear where all this money was spent. Two companies hired to supply the medals Valley River Trading in Gauteng and Perspective Engravers who trade as Badge Guy in Port Elizabeth only charged a combined R234 932, according to invoices and financial records. Badge Guy owner Sharon Uren said: Our clients commercial information is confidential. But Valley River Trading confirmed the amounts. In the same month s progress report to the municipality, it lists that Guinness World Records was paid R183 384 to fast-track 18 record attempts. But some of City of Champions 2015 financial statements show only R9 917 was paid to the international company. The report says R135 840 of the money was spent on three consultations with Guinness World Records to fast-track record attempts. Guinness World Records spokeswoman Jakki Lewis said: Consultation with a dedicated account manager for a commercial record is part of the individual package [in relation to the fast-track service]. City of Champions also paid R8 462 to the four-star Buffelsdrift Game Lodge near Cango Caves in August 2015. And Msutu checked in on Facebook with his wife Nomfundo Msutu, 34, to Oppi Dam, about 3km from the game lodge that same month. With Qatar Airways paid R63 905 in November, Msutu and Nomfundo flew business class a little more than a month later to Doha. The trip was confirmed on his Facebook profile. At least 23 restaurants were paid, with the most expensive bill linked to Cubana. Another high bill is that of Finnezz for R4 513 paid in August 2015. Expensive whisky such as Aberlour for R975 and Laphroaig at R1 330 were purchased, according to the bill. City of Champions hosted 113 events and were expected to stage 27 world record attempts. But only one record at the time, the longest marathon playing rugby union, is recognised by Guinness World Records. Other records were done through RecordSetter, a US company that allows people to submit videos as proof of attempts. This includes the most consecutive perfect-push-ups, most hugs given in one minute, most frog-leap jumps by two people and most high-fives in one minute. Port Elizabeth social development expert Professor Deon Pretorius carried out a socio-economic impact assessment for City of Champions. But while the report submitted to the municipality was glowing, Pretorius told Weekend Post he felt the events did not offer much value in the way they were presented and organised. He said the achievement of world records would not necessarily benefit the city. However, if the events were presented in such a way that could generate social cohesion it would have some value. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share