Former DA member hit with criminal defamation over claims A former DA member who accused Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip of offering her a bribe is facing the relatively rare charge of criminal defamation due to the widespread implications of her allegations. Nontuthuzelo Jack, 47, failed to appear in the Port Elizabeth Regional Court yesterday because of a broken leg. A warrant of arrest was issued but held over and the case postponed to March 6. Prosecutor Thabo Sali said he received a medical note from Livingstone Hospital shortly before Jack was due to appear yesterday, informing him that she had broken a bone in her lower right leg. Jack is accused of defaming Trollip by claming that he had offered her a bribe to dig up dirt on DA provincial chairwoman Veliswa Mvenya. Jack s claims were published in The Herald s sister newspaper, the Daily Dispatch, between March and April last year in the run-up to the municipal elections. The deputy director of public prosecutions in Grahamstown, Advocate Malherbe Marais, said that while rare, a charge of criminal defamation was very serious. Because Trollip s reputation was allegedly tarnished publicly in a newspaper Marais s office decided to charge Jack with criminal defamation and not the more common charge of crimen injuria. Marais said there was a big difference between the two charges. Crimen injuria is the unlawful and intentional impairment of the dignity of a person, he said. It becomes criminal defamation when this impairment is done publicly, as was the case here. The publication thereof is very serious as the allegations made here were aimed at destroying the complainant s [Trollip s] political career. Marais said there was no prescribed sentence for criminal defamation and, if the person was convicted, the court would look at the damage caused to the complainant when handing down a suitable sanction. He said complainants in such matters usually went the civil route, for monetary gratification, but Trollip had opted to go the criminal route because it was more important for him to have his name cleared. According to the charge sheet, Jack accused Trollip of attempting to bribe her while the DA was in the process of campaigning for last year s municipal elections and identifying candidates for various positions. Jack and Trollip aspired to hold the same position. Whether to improve her own chances or to diminish Trollip s, the accused proceeded to repeatedly publish false and defamatory allegations against Trollip, the charge sheet reads. In 2008, the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) confirmed the conviction of Luzuko Hoho, who received a suspended prison term, as well as three years correctional supervision, for compiling and publishing several leaflets between 2001 and 2002 in which he defamed members of the Eastern Cape legislature and other senior government officials. Hoho, a researcher at the legislature at the time, accused them of corruption, bribery, financial embezzlement, sexual impropriety, illegal abortion and fraud. The SCA concluded that the crime of defamation was still in existence and consonant with the constitution that the law still recognised it as a criminal offence. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share