Chabalala praises Chilli Boys for playing the entertaining soccer he really enjoys Though many have questioned Justice Chabalala s loan move from Orlando Pirates to Chippa United, the talented defender said the decision was the best move for his career. Chalabala is on a six-month loan swap deal with the Port Elizabeth-based club, which saw former Chippa players James Okwuosa and Marc van Heerden move to the Buccaneers. The Giyani-born player made an impressive debut for Chippa in their 1-1 draw against African Champs Mamelodi Sundowns, a game he believes they should have won. I think I performed well and also the team did very well, especially against Sundowns, Chabalala said. We know Sundowns is a very big team and it was my first game for Chippa. We were supposed to get three points. We had more chances and we were supposed to win that game, but we understand football. Despite many people questioning his move, the defender has fitted in nicely at Chippa and played a vital role in making the Chilli Boys back line firm in the two matches he has featured in. Many people called me and asked me why did they [Pirates] loan you to Chippa, he said. So, I told them these things happen in football and as a footballer you have to be patient. You have to take whatever the club bosses or coach say. In the long run it will help you. When I was told I was going to Chippa and some players from Chippa would be going to Pirates, I did not lose my focus. Some players when you play for a big team and you get loaned out to a smaller team they think it s the end of the world and they lose focus. In football you have to know what you are playing for and what you want to achieve, because, you never know, you can play for Chippa and tomorrow you are bought by an overseas team. That is what I took from the coaches who have mentored me, my brothers and my agent who have been supporting me throughout my career. Justice Chabalala of Chippa United Picture: Michael Sheehan / Gallo Images He said Chippa had welcomed him with open arms and he was happy to have joined a team with such an impressive style of football. The former Free State Stars player said the Chilli Boys footwork on the field was the style he enjoyed most. I don t want to lie Chippa are the first team that I have played for that play such entertaining football. They play the ball down on the ground and not in the air. That is the type of football I enjoy playing. The defender s career took off when he joined the Free State Stars development team in 2014. A year later he was promoted to the senior team. While at Stars he caught the eye of the Soweto giants Pirates, who signed him last year. His motto is if you work hard and you are patient many good things will happen. You also have to follow the coach s instructions that will help you, Chabalala said. I am a fast learner and I am also able to adjust well in any environment that is new to me. What the coach says, I take it and I learn from him. For me to move from Pirates and come to Port Elizabeth, I am very happy. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share