Come next week, the ANC in the Eastern Cape will open its succession talks, allowing its members to debate who they want to lead the party later this year. Branches will formally declare their preferred candidates. In July, members will vote for a new leadership at the party s elective conference. A quick troll through various media platforms so far throws up interesting clues on who members are eyeing, particularly for the chairmanship position. Premier Phumulo Masualle, provincial secretary Oscar Mabuyane and MEC Mlibo Qoboshiyane could be in the running. In accordance with ANC tradition, none of the three men have publicly accepted nomination yet. But that has not stopped eager supporters from lobbying. Not to be outdone, former Nelson Mandela Bay chairman Nceba Faku has thrown his hat in the ring. The jury is out on whether Faku, who quit his regional chairmanship via SMS in 2013, can garner enough support throughout the province to get the top job. For the ordinary person who is not too bothered with the politics of the day, this process does not mean much. Fair enough. Especially when considering how the ANC appears hell-bent on self-destructing. But here s why it matters: About seven million people live here, making us South Africa s third most populous province. Less than a third have matric or higher education, according to the last census count. (I do not believe that it has significantly grown since.) About 33% of adults are unemployed and our economy is growing at less than a percentage point year on year. Simply put, too many people who live here are jobless, cannot find work, and many do not have the skills required to start and grow their own businesses. Those who own firms struggle to find workers skilled enough to be competitive. Those who are employed are barely managing. We are in debt and, comparatively, our income is diminishing. Like it or not, how we are governed is crucial to finding solutions to these problems. The ANC clinched 70% of the vote in the provincial elections in 2014. Unless it sheds more than 20% of its voters in the next two years, it is likely to continue to be in charge of the Bhisho administration beyond 2019. Moreover, if the ANC sticks to its past preference, where its provincial chairperson is its premier candidate, it stands to reason that whoever is elected chairperson in July, will likely head our provincial government in two years. Here is where my interest piques. The succession debate about to unfold will hopefully help us understand what kind of leader the ANC s rank and file believe will help this province. I am mindful that in the process of electing leaders, many other things are at play. This is politics after all. I am aware of the different agendas, the branch logistics which often corrupt election processes. I also understand the national ANC dynamics which will inadvertently define the character and tone of these deliberations. However, what I am most interested in is whether crucial matters such as the state of our economy, our education or our hospitals, for example, are foremost in mind when members pick leaders. Last week the portfolio committee at the legislature which oversees the premier s office raised concerns about what it said was below par leadership effectiveness in the provincial government. It said human resource management was ineffective and poor, and that not enough support was given to municipalities. Most concerning for me was its finding that our provincial administration did not meet the required professional standards. None of these findings are surprising. While there are many public servants committed to making things work, many of us who have dealt with government will attest to some of the committee s findings. Granted, regardless of who the ANC elects, there is no magic wand that will instantly transform our administration into a well-oiled delivery machine. However, while reading the committee s report I wondered if findings such as these, for example, formed part of the ANC s considerations when electing leaders. If they do not, why not? Although it is tempting to go with the popular belief, which is that ANC members are only concerned with lining their own pockets, I believe that narrative is too simplistic. Not all members who have voting power in the ANC enjoy the kind of proximity to leadership that guarantees benefit from patronage. Otherwise we would not have rolling service delivery protests led by ANC members themselves. It therefore is unclear to me why ANC members would base leadership choices on superficial, shortsighted motives, when they themselves are equally on the receiving end of poor delivery. The coming months will present the ANC with an opportunity to make decisions that will influence the direction of this province. It can choose to play blind political games that will keep us on the periphery of economic activity, or it can elect leaders with enough mettle to respond to the quagmire we find ourselves in. Nwabisa Makunga is the deputy editor of The Herald and Weekend Post. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share