BACK IN ACTION: All-rounder Aya Gqamane returns to the Warriors squad for the match starting in Benoni today Picture: RICHARD HUGGARD Positive finish sought after iffy campaign A positive end to a roller coaster Sunfoil Series campaign is what the Warriors will be gunning for as they take on the Multiply Titans in their four day clash in Benoni starting today. Both teams will want to win for markedly different reasons, the Warriors being bottom of the table will not want to end the season there, so will be desperate for the victory, while the Titans sitting top want to seal the title. This is the last game of the four-day season and we are up against the top-of-the-table Titans, Warriors captain Simon Harmer said. They are in a prime position to win the Sunfoil Series, so we would love to get a win to end on a high and also to throw a spanner in the works. We don t want to end the season at the bottom of the table and we will do everything we can to get the win. The Warriors enjoyed a good start to the Sunfoil Series season and at the halfway mark were second on the log having won two, lost two and drawn one of their five games at that point. An impressive T20 campaign followed, with the Warriors losing out to the Titans in the final. However, since getting back into four-day action the Warriors have drawn two and lost two games to slide down the table, culminating with them losing to the Lions at Buffalo Park this past weekend, allowing the Johannesburg side to leapfrog them on the standings. It has been disappointing to lose two on the bounce in Bloemfontein and East London, Harmer said. On both occasions we weren t able to chase gettable targets on the final day and that is something we need to address. But the guys are eager to turn it around. We have had some very exciting matches with the Titans this season and we are expecting another. It is not really about revenge. We beat them earlier in the competition in PE and although there are a few guys in the squad who would like to beat them because of the T20, we don t need much more motivation than to just want to end the competition on a positive note. Only one change has been made to the Warriors squad from the one that took on the Lions, so they will enjoy some continuity and hope that the combinations pay off against the Titans. Our bowlers have bowled a lot of overs, so we are looking to freshen up the bowling department, he said. Sisanda Magala has dropped out to have a rest and Aya Gqamane, who has been doing really well in the semi-pro set-up, has come in. The action gets under way at 10.30am. Warriors Squad: Colin Ackermann, Simon Harmer (c), Colin Ingram, Gihahn Cloete, Anrich Nortje, Edward Moore, Aya Gqamane, Lesiba Ngoepe, Tladi Bokako, Jerry Nqolo, Yaseen Vallie, Basheer Walters, Somila Seyibokwe. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share