FIRST HOME: Bradley Weiss celebrates winning the Xterra Full event at Kings Beach at the weekend Picture: BRIAN WITBOOI Bradley Weiss and Johandri Leicester dominated the respective men s and women s fields at the Fedhealth Xterra Full on the Port Elizabeth beachfront on Saturday. Staging his comeback from injury, Weiss proved to be in a league of his own, completing the 1.5km ocean swim, 28km MTB discipline and 12km trail run in a combined time of two hours and two seconds. I wasn t sure if I d make the start today. My doctor actually advised me not to race, but I wasn t going to stay away any longer, Weiss said. I felt amazing today. It seems that the long rest period did me good. The Xterra Nelson Mandela Bay course is becoming one of my favourite courses. It features a lot of single track and is pure mountain biking. Stuart Marais, who came second on the day, said Weiss drove the pace on the mountain bike discipline. The swim was hard. Brad and I exited the water together behind Keegan Cooke and Theo Blignaut. We jumped onto the bikes at the same time, but I lost Brad s wheel at a river crossing. I decided to ride smoothly instead of fast. From there, Brad led for the rest of the race. Xterra Nelson Mandela Bay s ocean swim is fantastic. The mountain bike course is technical, a real cross-country-style course. The run is cool. It s fast, there are climbs and sand. Theo Blignaut rounded off the podium for the men. Johandri Leicester s finishing time of two hours 38min 20sec secured her the top spot in the women s race. Today was tough, Leicester said. I misjudged the swim, but managed to catch a wave on my way out. I completed the mountain bike discipline slower than in 2016, but there was more sand this year so that is understandable. Overall, I had a good race. I really like the ocean swim and technical mountain biking. Alexia Loizou came in second, while Tracey Campbell finished third. Yesterday, windy conditions did not deter Nelson Mandela Bay s trail running community in the Exterra Trail Run, where competitors could choose between a 6km and 12km route. Gift Zet set the course on fire in the men s 12km Trail Run. Making his debut, he claimed gold in 32min 14sec. The route was tough, Zet said. There was so much sand. Eric Sigxashe came in second, while Mvuyisi Gcogco finished third. Coming from a road running background, Siphokazi Nojeko obliterated the field in the women s 12km Trail Run in a time of 40min 35sec. Reigning 6km Trail Run champion Siyabonga Kahla successfully defended his title in 17min 30sec. Ambesa Tokwe came in second, while Ngxishe Sansiso finished third. Nomakhosi Ntiziolo crossed the line first in the women s 6km in 23min 16sec. Linel Engelbrecht came second, while Lisa Watkins-Baker was third. The Xterra Lite finished off the weekend s programme yesterday with Keegan Cooke and Leicester obliterating the field. I competed in my first Xterra Full race yesterday and then decided to do the Xterra Lite today as well, Cooke said. I come from a road triathlon background. It s cool to go off-road for a change . . . Xterra Nelson Mandela Bay has an urban feel to it and a really cool vibe. Cooke crossed the finish line in a combined time of 1hr 6min 23sec. Cameron Macnair came second, while Phillipe van der Leeuw finished third. Leicester crossed the finish line in 1hr 18min 16sec. Tracey Campbell came second and Jade Hooke third. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share