Nceba Faku Picture: B-jay Piercey Ex-mayor will be up against provincial heavyweights After months of speculation and behind-the-scenes lobbying, former Nelson Mandela Bay mayor-turned businessman Nceba Faku has declared that he will be vying for the ANC s top post in the Eastern Cape. Faku finally revealed his plans to go up against some of the ANC s most powerful politicians in the province during an interview yesterday. He said he was ready to wrestle for the support of branches across the province ahead of the July provincial elective conference. While other candidates likely to contest for the top spot have not yet publicly declared their intentions, it is believed that Faku will be up against current provincial chairman and premier, Phumulo Masualle, provincial secretary Oscar Mabuyane and provincial executive committee (PEC) member, Mlibo Qoboshiyane. There are groupings that have started lobbying for the various leaders, with Mabuyane believed to have the support of some of the bigger regions, such as the OR Tambo region and four others. Masualle is believed to have the backing of the Chris Hani region. Whoever succeeds in clinching the provincial chairmanship is likely to be the premier candidate should the ANC win the majority vote in 2019. This, as the provincial ANC previously said it supports the notion of having one centre of power. Meanwhile, Faku said yesterday he was confident he would get the grassroots support from the branches. He said: It s up to branches to elect leaders, not the regional leaders. Regional leaders can say whoever they endorse but we will continue lobbying for support from branch leaders and activists. Four branch leaders and councillors in Nelson Mandela Bay confirmed their support for Faku yesterday. However, his campaign has already hit a snag as the name of the chairman of the Sarah Baartman region, Mlungisi Mvoko, appears on the list of the slate supporting Mabuyane. Faku is said to have approached neighbouring region Sarah Baartman to support his candidacy. But according to its regional secretary Scara Njadayi, the region was not yet backing any grouping, but merely wanted Mvoko included in the PEC. We will consolidate the support of the regions that are able to agree with us on certain issues which include adding our chairperson in the PEC, Njadayi said. He confirmed meeting Faku, but said: He [Faku] never declared his availability to lead. We only discussed issues that are affecting the organisation in the province and nationally, and we spoke about how we can move the ANC forward. Although it is regarded as one of the smaller regions, with the number of groupings in the province backing various leaders, the Sarah Baartman support could boost Faku s bid for the chairmanship. Faku s campaign appears to be centred on moving the ANC forward from the current crisis in the organisation. Faku said: People are dissatisfied with the ANC because of corruption and mismanagement of the state resources and those things need a leader to address them quickly. Additional reporting by Avuyile Mngxitama-Diko Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share