Spending time with your loved one is the greatest gift of all say relationship strategists Mo and Phindi in their weekly column today &nbsp; &nbsp; There are no prizes for guessing what time of the year it is. Almost every retail store has a red colour theme with cupids, chocolates, roses and appropriately themed gift cards galore. Oh . . . and not forgetting the special gala dinner functions. It s Valentine s Day! While planning our angle for today s feature, we were tempted to write about the commercial spectacle that this day has come to represent. We were also tempted to write about how this day is amply recorded to have come about in the first place as well as how we, personally don t believe in it. But that would, at best, possibly cause very little change in your relationship as scores of people around the world not only believe in it, but many partners expect an exchange of some sort of pleasantries from one another this week. We wish to add to your array of ideas of what gift to give your partner. One whose impact would last far beyond a romantic dinner, jewellery, chocolate, rose, gift card and others. All of these are supposed to be part of your relationship throughout the year anyway. What we believe to be the most important gift your partner would appreciate, not just on Valentine s Day but every day, is your time. One of the things Phindi once told Mo at the start of our relationship was that she s not looking for someone who has everything, but one who has time to spend with her above anything else. There is nothing that screams I love you in a relationship more than giving your partner the gift of your time, attention and presence. At one level, presence means physical nearness in the form of all that you do together. There is a tenderness of a loving comfort that such intimacy brings, and often deeply envied by those who dance alone. Yet for those who do have a partner, sometimes this endearing level of comfort allows us to mask and ignore an underlying, gnawing sense of separateness of not really being known or touched as often as we d like, largely because of the comfortable stability of familiarity. Serious danger There is serious danger to being overly familiar to your partner. It s indeed a good thing to know your partner like the back of your hand. Familiarity is an asset in marriage, but beware the danger on the flip-side . . . too much familiarity. The danger of familiarity is when you think you are close enough to your partner to excuse you doing things that are obnoxious. You might call the flip-side of familiarity a type of entitlement when you believe you have earned a free pass and therefore have the right to do certain things because you know what s best for the other. Examples include: howling, criticising, ignoring, teasing, irritability, being crude, moody or nagging. Unhappy partners often complain: I wish my husband or wife would act the way he or she did while we were dating. It s not so much the dating and courtship season that is being missed, but the presence of respect. A respect that diminishes with increased familiarity and erodes when over-familiarity sets in. It s leaving the bathroom door open after using it, not cleaning up after yourself, not saying thank you , not saying (verbalising) I love you . These acts of over-familiarity disappoint and draw anger because for one partner they symbolise a lack of respect, while for the other, they merely represent the comfort and perceived lack of need to stand on ceremony that they believe should characterise an intimate relationship. Unhealthy familiarity is a cancer that over a period of time eventually sucks the life out of an otherwise healthy relationship. It is said that living together for a long time eventually leads to greater liking of each other. This may be true in cases where you make an effort to understand one another better and therefore grow in love. In many cases however, the more familiar couples become with one another, the more they start to take each other for granted. There are other levels of presence that can provide even greater joy, deeper intimacy and more nourishing spiritual bonding. Consciously or unconsciously, all of us crave this deeper level of attention and time given to us by someone we love. We take Valentine s Day as a reminder to celebrate each other. We appreciate gift-giving. We both share that as one of our shared love languages. However, every day is an opportunity to exchange not only presents, but share each other s presence in an atmosphere that results in valuable intimacy. Giving your partner the unwavering gift of attention where they become the sole object of your attention, without anything or anyone getting in the way, will ensure much deeper and lasting intimacy than a staged romantic dinner. &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share