In January last year, at the Nangoza Jebe Hall in New Brighton, ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe castigated the clergy at the funeral of Rev Mcebisi Xundu for criticising the ANC in public. In essence, he told those clergymen who criticised the ANC publicly, to go to hell. He said if the clergy did not want to associate with the ANC because they said it was corrupt and you do not want to be contaminated by us , then the ANC did not want their advice nor to be contaminated by you . His utterances were unfortunate and disappointing. He was speaking on behalf of the ANC. The funeral was attended by many junior and senior state employees, and heads of departments. His comments prompted me to write on social media that his leadership was a curse to our nation . The death of 94 mentally ill Gauteng patients ties in neatly with that callous statement he made at Xundu s funeral. Professor Malegapuru Makgoba, the health ombudsman who uncovered the negligence, recklessness and irresponsibility that led to the tragic death of more than 94 patients, could not hide his disgust. The patients were moved from long-term private hospital care to illegal (unregistered) community organisations, as a cost-cutting measure. Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu embarked on this programme to save money. Her department wanted to stop the contract it had with private hospital group Life Healthcare, the owners of Life Esidimeni, a facility that catered for psychiatric patients. It is said the MEC went ahead despite various protestations from experts and families. She did not listen, because what was in her mind was to look for cheaper caregivers. Her ill-conceived cost-saving exercise led to lives being lost. Seeking to cut costs is admirable however, such action must be preceded by planning and a search for a suitable alternative. The Gauteng Health Department undermined, dismissed and ignored all the advice and the warnings by NGOs. Early last year, the South African Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) warned against plans to relocate psychiatric patients. Mahlangu responded dismissively, It doesn t mean that those people died on the basis that they were moved. So let s not get into that, let s allow the professionals to investigate. The pending disaster was predicted by Sadag s Cassey Chambers s protestations when she said, Patients were moved without their medical records or medication basically, with the clothes on their back. Unfortunately, a lot of the family members weren t notified where their loved ones were being moved to, when or how they were being moved. At the same time, the South African Society of Psychiatrists (Sasop) also says it had brought concerns to Mahlangu before the transfer, but she failed to respond last year. General concerns were brought to Mahlangu s attention even before the transfers, according to Sasop head Dr Mvuyiso Talatala. He says the Health Department ignored expert advice . The ombudsman s report describe the actions of the senior officials as being chaotic, hurried, rushed and a total shambles . It is not surprising that Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi confesses, I am not embarrassed, I am troubled and very angry, something like this should have been avoided . This whole saga exposed the disdain with which our government treats our people. The Gauteng provincial government is being castigated for this national calamity. Do the politicians hope that the public will believe that this state-orchestrated tragedy is an isolated incident? The public confront this disregard and disrespect daily. How could the people be respected when a leader of the governing party says, at a funeral of a revered icon and crusader for justice and human rights, that we shall ignore whatever you say, for as long as you do not belong to my party. The same whitewashing followed the killing of Andries Tatane. His death was easily dismissed because he dared protest for water in his community. The same we don t care attitude was adopted in respect of the people of Marikana, where the miners belonged to a union that was not in alliance with the ANC. The common denominator for all these incidents is the fact that the people affected were, in most cases, poor, weak and voiceless. They stood no chance against the might of an arrogant state power. Mahlangu was forced to resign even before the report was made public. A first of its kind. Our politicians do not resign, no matter what the transgression is. They, like our president, if caught, sow division and turmoil in the whole society, instead of owning up and rectifying their misdeeds. Such a phenomenon was displayed during the Nkandla saga, when the ANC opted rather to divide our society while protecting the scandal. If Mahlangu was still relying on previous collective cover-ups , she should know that factional battles within the governing party have left political rogues exposed. If you are caught on the wrong side of the factional battles you are going to be thrown to the wolves. Mahlangu is not condemned because there is a desire for accountability, but because there is selective application of accountability. Those of us who have been concerned by the lack of accountability and proper governance knew that one day our people would pay dearly for their complacency. Civil servants have shown utter disregard for citizens simply because if those they ill-treat are not dear to their bosses, there is nothing to stress about . The hostile messages emanating from the top, castigating human rights and civic organisations, NGOs and other moral voices, have led to the hardening of attitudes by junior civil servants. Had it not been for these groups, the 94 would have totally forgotten and their families left on their own to deal with their pain. Calls on the health minister to request the South African Human Rights Commission to undertake a systematic review of human rights compliance and possible violations nationally related to mental health, are getting louder by the day. Mantashe and others should heed the words of the Dalai Lama XIV: If you can, help others; if you cannot do that, at least do no harm . Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share