What was meant to be a podium finish for one of Port Elizabeth s young cycling talents ended in a crash that left her concussed and heartbroken over the lost opportunity at yesterday s The Herald Continental Cycle Tour. With less than a kilometre to go in the 106km main event, Monique Gerber, 20, was riding among the race leaders, neckand-neck with eventual winner Anriette Schoeman. She started visualising her breakaway and sprint to the finish, but disaster struck a little more than 100m from the finish line. I was riding right behind one of the male pro cyclists as he was heading towards a group finishing up the 55km event, Gerber said. Monique Gerber Picture: Brian Witbooi I already knew I was going to pass on his right and put everything I had left into my final sprint to the finish. At that stage, I knew I could win and even if Anriette came past me, I would at least end somewhere on the podium. But, in a flash, the man in front of me swerved left and before I could react I crashed into the slower cyclist in front of me. Gerber shot from her bike and hit the tar road with her head and back. Other cyclists, also racing for the finish, struggled to avoid the collision and ended up riding over her. At least five cyclists were injured. The fall left Gerber with concussion, a stiff neck and back, and a number of cuts and scrapes on her hands, arms, legs and back. The moment I saw that guy in front of me, I knew I was going down, Gerber said. I slammed on the brakes but that was just to lessen the impact. I knew I was coming off my bike. Lying on the tar, I could feel my body was hurting. I started crying, but not because of the pain. I knew I had had a great race and was heading toward a podium finish, and I cried because I had lost it so close to the end. Yesterday s event was her first race back after two years of nagging health issues that kept her from training and competition. Now the crash will keep her from taking part in next month s Cape Town Cycle Tour. She did, however, find a silver lining through the pain and sadness. At least I know I can push myself and that I have what it takes to ride among the country s top cyclists, Gerber said. It all went well right to the end, and I can t wait to push myself once I get back on my bike. Depending on her recovery, her target will be to compete in the African Track Championships in three weeks time, followed by the SA Track Championships in April. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share