Explosives dog Zinzi, 6, and her handler Sergeant Solomon Morake. Picture: Eugene Coetzee After a week of being put through their paces, police dogs from across the country visited a number of schools in Port Elizabeth yesterday before South Africa s top dogs were announced at an event at the Boardwalk. The Eastern Cape was recognised as the best K9 and mounted unit in the country. The province s team of Sergeant RC Spannenberg, with his dog, Gavin, won the protected species category. Warrant Officer J Potgieter and his dog, Ben, won the search and rescue category. Colonel V Naidoo was elected best provincial police and emergency services commander. On Thursday, 15 people were arrested during a joint operation of the country s top K9 units. The operation was a spin-off of the National K9 Unit championships held in Port Elizabeth over the past week. According to police, the joint operation targeted identified problematic hotspot areas such as suburbs in the northern areas. Yesterday police, together with representatives of various state departments such as health and social development, met with schoolchildren at the Nangoza Jebe Hall in New Brighton. Police spokesman Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said that as part of the Safer Schools Project, police had visited 167 schools in the Motherwell Cluster including the New Brighton, Kwazakhele, Motherwell, KwaDwesi, Ikamvelihle, Swartkops, Kinkelbos and Paterson areas in the past week. Over the past six months, in the Motherwell Cluster alone, 3 784 people were arrested for crimes ranging from murder and rape to robbery. Among these arrests, 683 people were arrested for drug-related crimes, which is an indication of the serious drug problem in these areas, and a variety of drugs was recovered, Naidoo said. A 24-hour high-visibility operation was conducted in Port Elizabeth as part of the build-up to the outreach programme. Various disciplines from K9 Units from all nine provinces as well as head office, protection and security services, operational response services and other government departments joined efforts to ensure maximum results. Naidoo said that 15 people were arrested 11for drug-related offences, two for assault, one for murder and one for attempted murder. Confiscation and seizures included mandrax, dagga, tik, knives, prescription drugs and clothing suspected to have been stolen. In addition to the arrests, 71 traffic fines totalling R53 950 were issued. Communities are urged to report any suspicious activities to the police as it is only if and when the police and the community work together that crime can successfully be curbed, he said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share