LEAKING INFRASTRUCTURE: Clean water is flowing down the streets of Joe Slovo Picture: BRIAN WITBOOI Despite Nelson Mandela Bay introducing punitive water restrictions following an instruction by the Department of Water and Sanitation to cut usage by 15%, water from leaks is still flowing in the streets of Joe Slovo. For two months, residents have made several attempts to get the municipality to fix the underground water leaks, which have resulted in a pool of water in the streets and in front of their homes. The municipality visited the area two weeks ago, but the situation is unchanged. At present the city is placed under Part B of the water restrictions, with households being charged higher rates if they exceed 400 litres a day. It is difficult to drive through Matutu Street in Joe Slovo, with a pool of water in the middle of the road. Cynthia Mpofu, 71, said the leak was emanating from underground. When the water started coming out we did not think much of it as we thought that it would soon stop, she said. That was in November. It never stopped but the problem escalated to this pool of water which is extending to our yards. I am worried the water will affect my house s foundation if it is not fixed. Mpofu said she had called the municipality several times but had only been left with a reference number. In the Hillside area, Ntombizodwa Mabopha, 63, said she had to dig a furrow outside her newly built home as her yard is flooded with water, which she believes is from an underground leak of a communal tap pipe. In this heat we have to keep our windows and doors closed because of the mosquitos. We were happy to see the municipal people the other day but the problem still continues. I think the problem is with the underground pipe as they fix the one area only to have water coming out from another area. Instead of fixing the problem, we get water cuts about three times a week. Ward 41 councillor Simphiwe Tyukana said he had called the municipality several times, but nothing had happened. Nelson Mandela Bay municipal spokesman Mthubanzi Mniki said a team would be sent to fix the leak. More inspections will also be made to ascertain the reason for the persistent water leak so that sustainable solutions can be implemented. Residents can call 0800-205050 to report water leaks. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share