BLANKET FINISH: A determined Anriette Schoeman shows her delight after winning the women s section of The Herald Continental Cycle Tour yesterday Picture: FREDLIN ADRIAAN Nolan Hoffman and PE s Anriette Schoeman prevail in photo-finishes Nolan Hoffman (Team BCX) sprinted to the finish line to narrowly defend his title and also claim his seventh The Herald Continental Cycle Tour 106km race victory at Pollok Beach in Port Elizabeth yesterday. The 31-year-old, who crossed the line in a time of 2hr 30min 40sec, said there was pressure going into the race as all eyes were on him as the defending champion. But he managed to clinch the race in a tight finish ahead of second-placed Clint Hendricks (Team Road Cover) and Rohan du Plooy (third, Team Giant), who were both given the same time. Hoffman was in second place at the last checkpoint of the race and said it was the weather gods who helped him push through to win. The rain and wind has sort of been my lucky charm here, he said. Most of the times I have won here it was either windy or raining. I think for the bigger guys rain definitely plays into our favour. I climb better in the cold weather than in the heat. The weather gods were looking out for me. The Johannesburg-born Hoffman said he was delighted to have been able to defend his title. It s always difficult going into a race being a defending champion there is a lot of pressure on your shoulders, he said. Everybody looks to you and that is a little added pressure. But sometimes I perform well under pressure. He said the race was aggressive and that made matters tough. The Herald Continental always lives up to its reputation. PE is a windy city. Here you experience four seasons in one day. We literally experienced that in 2 hours. There was wind, rain and a little sunshine, but there was a good field of riders and the racing was really tough today. But I had good legs and I am happy to have pulled off the win. This was Hoffman s first win under his new colours since the rebranding of Team Telkom to Team BCX. He said the win was a great confidence boost ahead of the Cape Town Cycle Tour. Meanwhile, Port Elizabeth star Anriette Schoeman (Africa Silks), who won The Herald Continental Cycle Tour 80km Extreme mountain bike last weekend, doubled her first place honours yesterday. Although nursing a back injury which saw her trailing throughout the road race, the 39-year-old managed to squeeze a second title in a space of a week when she won in 3:00:46 ahead of An-Li Kachelhoffer (Bestmed ASG), who recorded the same time. Siska van der Bijl finished a mere second back in third place. Schoeman, competing in her 16th Herald Continental Cycle Tour event, said she was happy to have won this year after finishing runner-up for two consecutive years. Today s win is very special to me because this is one of my favourite events, she said. It makes me so proud to be part of the Eastern Cape s biggest event and to be able to take part in this. She believes home-ground advantage played a huge factor in her win. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share