Southern Kings head coach Deon Davids Picture: Supplied Head coach Deon Davids has warned the Southern Kings that the Jaguares will aim to get out of the starting blocks quickly to prove they are one of the better sides in Super Rugby. The Argentine outfit kick off their campaign at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Saturday (5.15pm) against a Kings outfit eager to impress. The Jaguares will come back stronger and will have learned a lot of lessons from their first year in the competition, Davids said. They will want to prove they can be one of the better sides. The Jaguares will want to get out of the starting blocks very quickly. It is an important game for them as well, so we are expecting a tough match. They have an experienced team and many are involved with the Argentine national side, so it is going to be a tough game for us. We will focus on ourselves. We believe that if we turn up on the day we can be competitive. The Kings were given the weekend off and Davids said the players had returned to training fresh and ready for battle. The training [yesterday] was fantastic. I am quite pleased with both the mood and focus at the training session. The guys look fresh, sharp and ready to go. The Kings will build on this energy for the rest of the week. We want to go out there and express ourselves. The coach said he was close to finalising his matchday squad. We have a good idea of who will be in the 23 to face the Jaguares. We will have to finalise one or two things [today] before naming the team. In the build-up to the Jaguares game the focus will be on attention to detail and ensuring that everyone knows their roles and responsibilities. The players must have a good understanding of our fundamentals and plans. We will work on intensity and detail this week. Powerful prop Schalk Ferreira will lead the Kings on Saturday and his coach has given him a big vote of confidence. Schalk worked extremely hard during the off-season and was a good example for young and old. He stood out as a natural leader on and off the field during our pre-season. He is well respected and accepted as a leader among the coaching staff and players, Davids said. He will be surrounded by a strong leadership group that will drive the team s systems, discipline and culture through the season. Schalk has [the] support [of all of us] in [helping] him be a successful captain and to enjoy his campaign this Super Rugby season. Ferreira was excited about leading the Kings. It is always an honour to represent the Southern Kings. Now to be leading as captain is an added honour one I carry with great pride, he said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share