TOP DOGS: The successful Knights squad show off the Sunfoil Series trophy and the winner s cheque after clinching the title by beating the Highveld Lions at the Wanderers at the weekend Picture: GALLO IMAGES Free State franchise clinch series as Warriors finish last Knights captain Theunis de Bruyn has attributed their success in winning the Sunfoil Series to the character and camaraderie within the squad after they were crowned the 2016-17 four-day champions on Saturday. They beat the Highveld Lions by an innings and 121 runs to seal a first championship title in nine years. They were known as the Eagles when they won their only previous success back in 2007-08 season. De Bruyn, still only 24, was captaining a franchise for the first time in his young career when he took over the reins at the start of the season, but has shown immense potential as a leader. It s been a roller-coaster ride considering all the ups and downs, the rained out games, playing poorly, but I just think about this game and the first game, the way we rolled the opposition under difficult circumstances, he said after their win at the Wanderers. The Knights won four of their 10 games through the term, drawing three and losing two, while one match was abandoned. Their wins came against the Titans in the first game of the campaign a match that saw them bowl out the reigning champions for just 67 and they also went on to beat the Cape Cobras and the Warriors. While De Bruyn provided most of their runs with his aggregate of 751 to place him third on the overall list it was their bowling that was the big difference. Duanne Olivier, who bagged 52 wickets, made his test debut on account of this form. He was well supported by the likes of Marchant de Lange (34) and Shadley van Schalkwyk (29). The other key man with the bat was wicketkeeper Rudi Second (684). A magnificent unbeaten century by Heino Kuhn formed the backbone for a record chase for the Titans as they ended the Sunfoil Series with a consolation four-wicket win over the Warriors on the final day of their clash in Benoni yesterday. The veteran opener made 165 not out (285 balls, 19 fours. 1 six) as the hosts chased down 316, which was their highest ever fourth innings total. The outgoing champions showed plenty of fight to ensure they bowed out on a high at Willowmoore Park. The bedrock of their win was Kuhn, but the foundation on the final day came from an opening partnership of 113 with Proteas test opener Dean Elgar, who made 58. Another vital stand of 69 followed for the second wicket as Aiden Markram batted stubbornly for his 17, while Heinrich Klaasen (13) then helped Kuhn take his team past 200. There was a slight wobble from the Titans middle-order as three wickets fell for 22 leaving them on 271/6 and just the tail to come. But man-of-the-match and star of the previous three days, Shaun von Berg, provided assured support for Kuhn through his unbeaten 35. The spin bowler, who took 10 wickets in the game and also made a first-innings century, helped Kuhn put on 45 for the seventh wicket to take their side over the line. The win took the hosts to 111.16 points, 1.78 less than new champion Knights (112.94), while the Warriors (84.4) ended bottom. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share