From left, Miss Eastern Cape, Thandokazi Mfundisi, Eastern Cape Arts and Culture MEC Pemmy Majodina and Eastern Cape Social Development MEC Nancy Sihlwayi. Pictures: Brian Witbooi It was glitz and glamour at the Bhisho legislature yesterday as MECs and guests tried to outshine each other on the red carpet with colourful outfits and showy hats. While some of the female MECs opted for bright, sparkly and attention-seeking designs, the men stuck to the usual suit and tie attire. Green, yellow, pink and red were the favourites among guests, while others flaunted their sparkly shoes and nails on the legislature lawns ahead of premier Phumulo Masualle s state of the province address. Sports, arts and culture MEC Pemmy Majodina did not disappoint, opting for an even brighter, more outlandish ensemble this year. She opted for a green and yellow theme and also her trademark lace umbrella. This year I wanted to showcase Eastern Cape talent. I bought the pattern for my dress in Italy. And the local designer who worked on it is Sibongiseni Tyolo from this province. This green colour represents the growth, restoration and freshness the Eastern Cape has. The yellow represents its influence, joy and enthusiasm. I wore these colours thinking about the people of this province and my nails are red because that is my favourite colour. You know the umbrella is my trademark. Last year it was red, this year I chose white. This means all the 6.4 million people of this province are covering me today, Majodina said. Human settlements MEC Helen Sauls-August looked stunning in a peach dress and matching shoes, although she was the more reserved of her colleagues and quickly made her way into the tent. Both health MEC Pumza Dyantyi and social development MEC Nancy Sihlwayi opted for gold dresses. Roads and public works MEC Thandiswa Marawu wore a yellow ball gown and her trademark floppy hat which covered her eyes most of the time. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share