The Sunfoil Series match between the Warriors and the Highveld Lions went down to the wire at Buffalo Park in East London yesterday, with the spoils going to the Lions. The visitors won by 14 runs, less than half an hour before the scheduled close of play. With the teams seeking the 10 bonus points for a win, they both went all out for victory. There was a surprise early on yesterday when the Lions declared their overnight score of 153/2, setting the Warriors the task of scoring 258 at the rate of 2.4 runs per over. With the pitch playing well, it seemed an easy task. But some excellent bowling in the first hour by Aya Myoli and Sean Jamison set the Warriors back, with the loss of four wickets by the time only 42 runs were on the board. Eddie Moore, Gihan Cloete, Colin Ackermann and Yaseen Vallie were all vanquished, and it was left to Colin Ingram and Lesiba Ngoepe to valiantly fight back. The two left-hand batsmen batted confidently for the first half-hour after lunch, which was taken at 117/4. Then left-arm spinner Bjorn Fortuin stepped up to the bowling crease and immediately changed matters. Ingram, on 46, lofted a high catch to long-on and Jamison did not have to move an inch to take a good catch, with the Warriors slipping to 154/5. The two had added an attractive 112 for the fifth wicket in just over two hours. Then, disaster struck for the Warriors. At 160, Ngoepe played over a ball from Beuran Hendricks and was bowled. His 77 was a most valuable innings, hitting nine boundaries off 104 balls in a stay of just over two hours. Then in mid-afternoon, just over two hours were lost to rain, with the score on 167/7. When play resumed, Magala lost his wicket at 183/8, caught by Nicky van der Bergh off Hendricks for seven. Anrich Nortje (26) joined Simon Harmer at the crease. Harmer was eventually out leg before wicket to Fortuin for a heroic 45, and the Warriors were dismissed for 243. The visitors took 16.16 bonus points, while the Warriors had to be content with 6.06. The defeat means they are out of the race for trophy honours in the competition. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share