Emergency services parked where the savage attack took place in Rowan Street in Rowallan Park. Picture: Supplied The three pit bulls involved in a savage attack on a man in Rowallan Park at the weekend have been euthanised at their owner s request. Animal Welfare confirmed on Monday that the dogs had been put down. Their owner, Marcus van Meiring, is under investigation for failing to prevent injury to another person under the Animal Protection Act. The victim, who has not yet been identified, is still fighting for his life in Livingstone Hospital after his arm was amputated on Sunday. The man was attacked in Rowan Street, Rowallan Park on Saturday afternoon. Two dogs were removed by Animal Anti-Cruelty and later placed in the care of Animal Welfare. Van Meiring handed over a third dog to Animal Welfare on Monday afternoon. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said Van Meiring had not opened any case. Instead, police are investigating a case of negligence or failure to protect another person under the Animal Protection Act against Van Meiring. The investigation is still under way and the detective has been to the hospital. The victim is still in the Intensive Care Unit and unable to talk, she said. His identity is still unknown but the residents in the area have confirmed that he frequents the suburbs, pulling a cart collecting people s rubbish. Asked about allegations on social media that the man had been trying to break into the house, Naidu said these allegations had not been substantiated. Detectives are currently contacting witnesses to obtain statements. Once this is done the investigators will have a better idea on what transpired. As per procedure, a warning statement will be taking from the dog owner who is under investigation, she said. Animal Welfare manager Hannes Stander confirmed the dogs euthanisation. Eastern Cape Health Department spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said the man s condition had improved and he was now stable. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share