PUKKE AVALANCHE: NMMU s Athenkosi Mayinje Mayinje is tackled by NWU-Pukke s Walt Steenkamp, left, and Loftus Morrisson during their Varsity Rugby match in Potchefstroom last night Picture: SASPA Captain Jeandre Rudolph took the lead to secure a bonus-point victory in this year s FNB Varsity Cup, as NWU-Pukke clinched the match 37-7 over the NMMU-Madibaz. In the third minute of the clash, it was the boot of Schalk Hugo which opened the score for the home team to put them in a favourable position, in which he successfully converted the penalty for offside, to put Pukke up 3-0 against the Madibaz. A short lineout created another opportunity for the home side as the man of the last match, Wilmar Arnoldi, flew over the try line for his fourth Varsity Cup try, to put five points on the board. Hugo successfully converted the try to keep the scoreboard ticking at 10-0. A few moments later, it was Elden Schoeman who bagged the second try for the Pukke to extend their lead to 17-0. Seven minutes before half time, NMMU kicked for the corner, but the discipline lacked as Xander Vos was yellow-carded and Pukke headed into the tunnel leading 17-0. The Madibaz struggled in the first half, lacking execution and giving away several penalties as Pukke dominated. Five minutes into the second half, it was Hugo with a penalty opportunity as his kicking boot was on point before the home crowd. He had a good strike to extend the lead to 20-0. Jimmy Mpailane received a yellow card in the 53rd minute in the match as he was punished for a high tackle. Vos took responsibility for his lack of discipline as he came back with determination, to put NMMU on the scoreboard for the first time, as Simon Bolze added another two points to put them 20-7 down against the defending champions. With less than 20 minutes to go, Hugo converted another successful penalty before his home crowd, to extend the lead for the well-disciplined side as they were on 23-7. Rudolph joined the party behind the try line, as he went over for two quick tries in the 70th minute of the game. Rudolph s second try, which was also the bonus try of the match, managed to get seven points to make it two wins from two matches. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share