Collen Maine Picture: Dumisani Sibeko / INLSA ANC Eastern Cape bosses are refusing to recognise the Collen Maine-appointed ANC Youth League provincial task team, saying all its internal disputes first had to be resolved. In a letter sent at the weekend, ANC provincial secretary Oscar Mabuyane urged party regions not to recognise any decisions of the youth league s interim provincial structure, including the recent disbanding of structures in various regions. Mabuyane also reinstated the disbanded provincial youth league structure pending the outcome of its appeal. The structure was dissolved in September by youth league president Maine and his executive following claims that the provincial structure was supporting calls for President Jacob Zuma to step down. However, the decision is being appealed, and resolution is expected by the end of the month. Mabuyane said yesterday: We have decided to reinstate the youth league s disbanded provincial leadership structure after consulting the ANC nationally. We were advised to reinstate until the outcome of its appeal, which is expected before the end of this month, to prevent duplication of work by different teams. Youth league secretary-general Njabulo Nzuza has hit back, saying the interim provincial team would take instructions from the league, not the ANC. Nzuza said: We do not recognise the ANC [provincial executive s] decision. The task team will carry out its mandate from the youth league national executive. Nzuza said the youth league was aware of an appeal by the disbanded Eastern Cape structure, but believed it could not stop its work while waiting for that outcome. He said the league was not aware of the reasons behind the decision by the ANC provincial leaders, saying it was unfortunate that they had reached such a decision. We do not know what led to it as we were not consulted, Nzuza said. The youth league provincial task team responded to Mabuyane s letter yesterday, reminding him that the youth league was an autonomous body with its own constitution, allowing it to take decisions without consulting its mother body. In the letter, the task team s Ntombikayise Mnyengeza wrote: Your letter can only be seen as a public relations exercise in trying to boost the confidence of the disbanded ANCYL PEC. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share