FUTURE STARS: Springbok assistant coach Mzwandile Stick with talented athletes Mbalentle Bennie, 11, of Fikizolo Primary, left, and Siyavuya Ntshengana, 12, of Inkwenkwezi, at the launch of the Khulasande Sports Development athletics programme this week Picture: BRIAN WITBOOI Development programme aims to foster talent A talented group of young athletes from Motherwell and Grahamstown are set to benefit from a new programme by Khulasande Sports Development (KSD). Launched at the Athenaeum Club in Port Elizabeth s Central yesterday, the project involves 40 youngsters, between eight and 12, who were selected from a talent identification pool programme during a four-week period. Motherwell s Inkwenkwezi Primary School and Fikizolo Primary School in Grahamstown each had 20 players selected. The initiative is driven by the Grassroots Youth Development together with KSD and helps to provide academic, nutritional and physical skills training for the children. Three training sessions a week are held at the schools. KSD managing director Thobela Thoba is the mastermind behind the programme. The most immediate goal for us is to groom provincial athletes within the next year to two years, and we hope to see them eventually become national athletes, Thoba said. I come from Motherwell and I know what it feels like to have no or little opportunity. The nutritional programme has had an impact on the young athletes since its establishment three months ago. They receive three meals a day a wholesome breakfast is followed by a nutritious lunch before the session and a recovery snack after training. The programme aims to ensure all our athletes are kept busy after school and away from undesirable misdemeanours, Thoba said. Sylvia Ntshengana, mother of 12-year-old Siyavuya from Inkwenkwezi, said the programme had had a good influence on her son. I am so happy Siyavuya is participating in something that will be a good foundation for his future, she said. I have seen his self-esteem and listening skills improve since he started. I could not afford to provide him with some of the things he needs for his athletics, like snacks and shoes. Guest speaker at the launch was Springbok assistant coach and Sevens hero Mzwandile Stick, of New Brighton. Stick related to his experience of losing his mother at 17 and how he used rugby as means of navigating in the right direction and escaping the harsh realities of growing up in a township. He also encouraged parents to instill discipline in their children. Discipline has made me who I am today. Having grown up in a township where I would see my peers drinking and doing drugs, I am just grateful that I was disciplined enough to attend rugby practice each day when I got back from school, Stick said. The project hopes to extend to Addo and Uitenhage during the year. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share