Keep your love life moving by breaking the ice this Valentine s Day with these 10 active date ideas. They are not only limited to Valentine s fun and several are even free! Dance classes Instead of the ordinary drinks at a local trendy bar, try something a little more out-of-the-box, like a swing dance class or even Zumba to get you warmed up and laughing the whole way through, Zone Fitness fitness manager Conry Orange says. Swing dance isn t your usual night out but it can teach you some new moves and help you get to know your partner a little better. Several gyms and private studios in Nelson Mandela Bay offer Zumba and the new class called Strong by Zumba. For a listing of studios click here. Hiking This can be great fun as a date idea and you don t have to be very fit to do a beginner s hike. To make it more fun, pack a small picnic meal and take a break when you reach your destination while admiring the view. Swimming Set off for the beach if it&#8217;s a warm day &#8211; today was a scorcher in Port Elizabeth with temperatures of more than 30 degrees &#8211; and spend time lazing in the sun and cooling off in the sea. Bring your friends too and play some beach activities such as frisbee. If the beach isn t for you, try one of the public swimming pools which are still open despite the water restrictions: McArthur Baths has the added attraction of restaurants and night clubs right next door to chill at afterwards. Rock climbing You can choose an easy course or have an instructor (or your date) guide you if you still need to get the hang of it. Falcon Rock at the base of Lady Slipper is a great excursion for those who live in Uitenhage or Port Elizabeth. Bowling Something we all loved doing in our youth, it can make you feel silly at times but grab a drink, listen to the cheesy music and sing along while you practice your shots. Have a ball at The Lighthouse at the Boardwalk or visit NitroPark at Baywest Mall. Skating Get your skates on in Nelson Mandela Bay either indoors or out. Baywest s ice rink has the gear but just remember to dress warmly as it is several degrees colder on the rink than in the mall. All that falling about gives you a chance to grab onto your date and the laughs are pretty much guaranteed Otherwise try rollerblading, which will give you the opportunity to get out into the fresh air and maybe stop for an ice-cream somewhere along the beachfront. Cycling Bike riding can be a laid-back way to see the city or ride along the beachfront cycle path for amazing sea views. If you re both feeling up for a challenge, embark on a more challenging trail or try mountain biking. Sign up with Fat Tracks Mountain Bicycle Club for the MTB thrills at www.fattracks.co.za Surfing Take your date or significant other out into the ocean and spend the day in the sea trying to catch a few waves. It s an easy way to bond with one another and is extremely rewarding once you get the hang of it and feel the rush of riding your first wave. Pipe at the end of Pollock Beach is a popular spot for groms (that s surf talk for newbies and total beginners). Once you re done surfing and feel like something more relaxing, put on your goggles and try some snorkeling. Bird Rock opposite Something Good is a popular spot for snorkeling. Try Surf Centre or Learn to Surf Paintball This is also an activity that d be a load of fun in a group, so you could make it a double-date and pair off, seeing how well you can work together as a team, all the while getting dirty and testing your aiming skills. It s better to go in a group and do kit-up as the little paintballs can sting. Try Planet Paintball www.planetpaintball.co.za or Paintball Heaven www.paintballheaven.co.za The Parkrun If you want to get more fresh air than exercise, this weekend sees the official opening of Port Elizabeth s second Parkrun course at Lady Slipper. This free, timed run is an undulating yes, there are hills 5km course that offers a completely different experience to the existing Parkrun at Hobie Beach. More information at www.parkrun.co.za Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share