Whether you are a participant or a spectator, The Herald Continental Cycle Tour race village at Pollok Beach, Port Elizabeth, will be alive with festivities for everyone this weekend. With the weather forecast at a high 27 C and 23 C for tomorrow and Sunday respectively, there is no reason for you to miss all the fun at the bigger and more accessible race village. The enclosed area will feature something for everyone, including a tented family area, kiddies playground, food trucks, secure bike park, a beer tent for the thirsty, entertainment throughout the day and a new hospitality area for individuals and businesses. When hunger strikes, Foongs, Groundfloor Pizza, Jingles frozen yogurt, Munchbox and Woodlands Dairy will have an assortment of food available. Urban Espress will be around for the weary-eyed who need a caffeine fix in the mornings. As far as children s entertainment is concerned, jumping castles, face painting and a family tent will be available. Claire Venn, Hugo Kleinhans and Jason Gladwin will also be singing their hearts out to entertain supporters and riders. The race village is open from 6am until 1pm tomorrow and from 6am to 2pm on Sunday. Tomorrow, the 38km Team Relay Challenge will start at 7am, the Powerade 500m Toddlers Dash at 9.30am and the Powerade 2km Kiddies Ride at 9.45am. Collection of race packs will still be available at the registration tent from 9am until 1pm. On Sunday, the 106km Classic riders line up at 6am, with the 55km Pursuit starting at 7.15am. Times Media Eastern Cape marketing officer Justin Peel said: This is very much a lifestyle event, so on the Saturday we ll have our team rely challenge, which is predominantly geared towards your entry level cyclists, corporates and schools. It s all geared towards fun more than competition. It s purely about going out and enjoying yourself on a bicycle. We ll have live entertainment featuring local artists and the regulars of the Food Truck Friday from the Baakens Valley. This is the 32nd run of this event and every year we improve one element of the race and our main objective of the race is to offer the rider the best possible experience one can get on a bicycle. Port Elizabeth has a general outdoor lifestyle setting. We re just creating the opportunity for people to experience that, he said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share