Orlando Pirates and Premier Soccer League (PSL) chairman Dr Irvin Khoza Picture: Foto24 / Conrel van Heerden / Gallo Images His club s 6-0 drubbing by Mamelodi Sundowns had sped up the process of replacing caretaker coach Augusto Palacios to the point where Bucs would make an announcement on Monday, Orlando Pirates chairman Irvin Khoza said yesterday. Khoza called a news conference at the Rand Stadium to assure fans that his club would cooperate fully with the law to see that the perpetrators of Saturday s violence at the PSL match against Downs at the Loftus Versfeld stadium were brought to justice. On the coaching issue Khoza said Pirates had been waiting for a head coach who had a buyout clause preventing him from leaving his position until May. Thr Bucs chairman said the extent of the drubbing at the hands of Sundowns had increased the urgency and the club would have to explore other options to make an announcement on Monday. A 6-1 loss [against SuperSport United in November] by a club of the stature of Orlando Pirates is unacceptable Khoza said. For that to be followed by a 6-0 loss [against Sundowns] is rubbing salt into a wound. This [yesterday] afternoon we ll be meeting with the technical team to get to the bottom of the problem. There is no denying there is a problem. It is not an easy task to find a coach for a team of the stature of Orlando Pirates FC. When we find a coach, the pressure on them is enormous. This is the reason why when we lose a coach we look to an insider in an attempt at stability until a replacement is found, he said. It has worked in the past. It is proving to be a challenge this time around. Unfortunately the candidate identified who we were going to announce by the end of January is under contract at another team and has a buyout clause for the next five months which is prohibitive. What I can guarantee is that by next week Monday because of what has happened we will be announcing a new coach. On the pitch invasion and fan fighting sparked by Percy Tau s 82nd-minute sixth goal for Sundowns after which 13 people are reported to have been treated for injuries Khoza said: Violence has no place in our football. No matter how strong we feel no matter how aggrieved we are when we engage in violence it defeats the legitimacy of our grievances. I pronounce here today that the club s unequivocal clear plain and unambiguous position is for the law to take its course, he said. I commit that this matter will receive the highest priority in accordance with the law. A failure to do so will result in a deterioration that will affect the following of football the sponsors the broadcasters and the public in ways that will erode the gains we have made and should defend bitterly. Palacios has served as caretaker coach of Orlando Pirates after Muhsin Ertugral s resignation the morning after the thrashing by SuperSport on November 1. The Buccaneers long-time development head and often caretaker in a head coaching crisis had managed three wins in his first three games but since then Bucs have not won in seven matches losing three and drawing four. Pirates are entrenched in the bottom half of the PSL log in 10th place. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share