Zoetmulder father and son Michael and tot Jaden gear up for the 2016 Herald Cycle Tour Picture: Gillian McAinsh The Herald Continental Cycle Tour starts this weekend with the mountain bike races at Addo, and the tour continues next weekend with the road races in Port Elizabeth off Pollok Beach. Click here for the what, where and when of the city s biggest cycling event. Just starting out? Here are few tips for new kids on the cycling block: Tip 1: Get a decent helmet 1. Get a decent helmet According to American cycling examiner Steven Pease, head injuries are the cause of nearly two out of three 60% of all deaths from cycling. That means a good helmet is essential. In South Africa there are no laws that say you need to wear a helmet, but it is important always to wear a helmet when riding and it is even more important that children do too. 2. Learn how to use your gears There should be no need to climb off your bike when you climb up a hill yes, even Brickmakers or Target Kloof! just shift into a gear that will keep your legs turning the pedals smoothly. Apart from the fact that it is tiring, it is also hard on your knees when you use a higher gear than you need. Tip 3: Get the right saddle 3. Use the right saddle. Beginners often shy away from a bike with a hard saddle but, depending on its shape, it may actually be more comfortable than one of those massive gel-filled seats. The thickest padding does not always equate to the softest ride. Aim for a longer seat, preferably with a cutout, and if you can test-drive before deciding, then so much the better. Alternately, buy a cushioned pair of cycling shorts or leggings. Just bear in mind that the cheaper kit may not be as comfortable as the expensive versions, which are designed for long-distance riders. If you only are tackling a short ride it is not really necessary to buy padded pants you will be finished and off your bike before the discomfort starts! 4. Ditch the headphones You may like to jog while listening to music but it is not a good idea to ride your bicycle with headphones on. Not only does it mean you do not hear noise on the road, such as a car approaching, it also takes your focus off the track or road. 5. Obey road signs It is tempting to whiz through stop streets and red traffic lights but don t. Just don t. You are using the road and need to know and obey the rules. Plus, the other road users may not be as alert as you would like. Bear in mind that you are only a fraction of the size of a car so who would end up the loser if there is to be a fender-bender? 6. Keep your eye on the road ahead. With a road bike in particular, a beginner cyclist is tempted to just look down but it is equally important to look ahead and around. Otherwise you will miss obstacles in your path that you need to navigate around, like potholes, speed bumps or, loose paving. If you are on a MTB, the advice is the same: keep an eye on the track ahead as well as directly in front, so you can anticipate what moves to make. 7. Last but not least, follow the old horse-riding advice: put one leg on the left, one leg on the right and your mind in middle! Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share