Charl Langeveldt Picture: Quinn Rooney/Getty Images / Getty Images SA bowling coach Langeveldt wary of aggressive Sri Lankan top-order batting Proteas bowling coach Charl Langeveldt expects more of the same aggression from the Sri Lankan batsmen in today s fifth and final ODI match at SuperSport Park in Centurion. Langeveldt said the brutal Sri Lankan onslaught in the first 20 overs of the Newlands match was a necessary learning curve for the young Proteas bowlers who lacked a spearhead. However he also hinted at Morne Morkel making a comeback for the Titans in the Momentum 1-Day Cup, which starts next week. Because we re playing with three bowling all rounders I feel there s space for a genuine strike bowler, Langeveldt said. Morne Morkel starts playing in a few weeks time which is a good sign for us. He s always had a good ODI record. There s a spot open and we re looking for a strike bowler, because it doesn t look like Dale Steyn is going to make it. We re still at a stage where we re trying to find an opening partner for Kagiso Rabada, but the nice thing about Tuesday was that we got tested. We ve had some easy sailing in the past couple of days. The Cape Town game was an eye-opener for us because they started very well which has been the case in the past two games as well. This is the kind of challenge we ve been looking for because New Zealand is going to be a different test. With a whitewash on the horizon testing different combinations and resting players has been the modus operandi for the Proteas think-tank. The highveld tracks have not been as batsmen friendly as one would have expected but the wet summer and the high water table have had a lot to do with that. Langeveldt hopes SuperSport Park groundsman Rudolph du Preez has prepared a surface that will test his bowlers. We haven t quite been up to standard so I m going to be quite hard on that. In terms of a grading, I ll give them a five in that perspective. But they showed a lot of character in coming back in the games, so I ll give them a seven. But if you want to be challenging for tournaments you need to be an eight or a nine. We want to take wickets in the middle period of the innings because it s the bowlers who win you games Langeveldt said. The pitch looks like a normal SuperSport Park [wicket] which has a lot of runs in it, so I expect the bowlers to be under pressure. I hope it s going to be a good contest. I d like to see the bowlers defending a good score. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share