Award-winning actress Nomhle Nkonyeni chats about her new role on Scandal! at her New Brighton home Picture: Fredlin Adriaan She is one of South Africa s most celebrated actresses and with more than four decades of theatre, film and television roles behind her, Nomhle Nkonyeni says her time on the screen is drawing to a close. The 75-year-old actress from New Brighton has just landed another role on e.tv soapie Scandal!, starring alongside veterans such as Sandy Mokwena who plays Eddie Khumalo and Patrick Mofokeng as Mlungisi Ngema. Nkonyeni will play Mam Lulama, Siseko s mother, a strong Xhosa woman from the rural Eastern Cape who, upon discovering her son is taking a second wife, decides to head to Jozi in an attempt to break up the relationship. Lulama is based in Bhisho and hears rumours that her son is getting a second wife, something that was planned by the first wife in attempts to get ahead of her husband s affair with this woman, who happened to be a past girlfriend, Nkoyeni said. The Safta-winning actress spoke to Weekend Post from her warm home in New Brighton about being sidelined from the industry only to stage a triumphant comeback. How did you get the role on Scandal! did you audition? The woman who s running the whole show, Ilse van Hemert, used to be my director in many of the plays I ve done. When I was in Johannesburg, I went knocking on her door and told her I wanted a job. She told me not to worry. The opportunity came this year while I was doing Igazi. I got a call from a lady who introduced herself as Michelle and asked about my availability. Tell us about your character, Mam Lulama. She is against this new marriage and devises a plan to break up the union. When that plan fails, she accepts the marriage because she does not want to ruin her relationship with her only child, Siseko. However, she does not give her blessing. How would you describe the character? She is a very strong woman who left Johannesburg many years ago and she is bitter. She s very harsh and the things she says to the new wife are things I personally wouldn t say to another woman s child. How are you splitting your time between Igazi and Scandal!? I think I m going to retire soon because age is against me. It s actually quite tough &#8230; because when I was younger, I used to do even more between four productions at the National Arts Festival, but now it s a challenge. But with God s grace I m managing. You divide your time between the City of Gold and the Windy City. How often to you stay in each place? It depends on how many calls I have in Johannesburg but as soon as I finish shooting, I m on the next flight home. I no longer feel comfortable in Johannesburg whereas I m quite comfortable here. I think my time in Johannesburg is over. The grass is greener &#8230; fine, but my body is not comfortable anymore. You have an upcoming production at the PE Opera House called Truck Driver. Tell us more. Last year I wanted to host a public arts festival and applied for funding from the Eastern Cape Provincial Arts and Culture Council (ECPACC). They assured me I would get R40000. I had a timeframe of between October until the first week of December, but I only received the money on November 18. By then unfortunately I had run out of time. Now I m using some of that funding for this show. What is Truck Driver about? Truck Driver was born here, in this garage back in 2012. It speaks about what is happening with women in today s society. It speaks about love and betrayal. The story-line is centred around two characters Noxolo and Mkhuseli. After becoming a professional woman, Noxolo cheats on her husband, a truck driver, and because of his anger towards his wife, Mkhuseli picks up women along the road while driving trucks and ends up killing them. What do you think of the talent in PE and what are your plans now that you are coming back? We have wonderful and amazing talent in PE. People said I m a legend in Joburg, thinking I was from there, but I solemnly claim my space and name in PE because when I left here, I didn t have a choice. Now I ve come back to plough back and nurture the talent here and that s something I feel proud of. How have you managed to sustain your career for four decades? Through perseverance and discipline. At some stage in my career I felt like I was being sidelined; there were no job offers from stage or film. I decided to do my masters in the UK at the age of 59 to give myself an edge and it paid off. Catch Scandal! weekdays on e.tv at 7.30pm. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share