ANC stalwart Winnie Madikizela-Mandela gets ANC President Jacob Zuma and his deputy Cyril Ramaphosa to hold hands before the start of the ANC policy conference taking place at Nasrec. Picture: Masi Losi Veterans, stalwarts slammed for wanting a separate conference While calling for unity and lashing out at those who speak negatively about the ANC, President Jacob Zuma took a swipe at veterans wanting a separate consultative conference, saying they believe they are above the party. Talking to about 5 000 delegates on the first day of the national policy conference yesterday, Zuma said it was worrying that the courts were constantly used to direct the government to implement its own policies better. And he bemoaned opposition parties who, when losing an argument in parliament, turned to the courts, which he believed was counter-democracy . Why in a democracy must we spend money to go to court for everything? Is that the democracy we want?, he asked. The six-day policy conference is under way at the Nasrec Expo Centre in Johannesburg. During his lengthy address, Zuma urged branches to ensure they did not spend hours diagnosing problems over the next few days, saying they had to find solutions to build the ANC and come out of the conference stronger and united. Going off script, he laid into the veterans and stalwarts who have called for him to step down. The 101 veterans and stalwarts called for a consultative conference and decided to boycott the policy conference when they did not get their way. We know some of them and they are not as strong as they think, Zuma said, reminding delegates that the power was with the branches. He said the branches were the ones with the powers to hire and fire mayors, councillors, premiers, MECs, ministers and the president. On state capture, Zuma, who has been widely criticised for allegedly allowing the controversial Gupta family to capture the state, said a thorough analysis of the South African economy was needed. Access to state power and resources by some in the party had led to perceptions and allegations that the ANC was corrupt, he said. Zuma is implicated in allegations of state capture, with deep links established between his family and the politically exposed Gupta family which has, according to some quarters, unduly benefited from state business. Zuma agreed with the scathing findings of a research report commissioned prior to the local government elections last year in which the ANC suffered its greatest decline to date. Zuma conceded the report had proved to be correct. But although it had found that perceptions in society were that we are soft on corruption, concerned about self-service and that the ANC is arrogant, Zuma said his party still needed to get to the bottom of the state capture problem. He even welcomed the commission of inquiry that he as president is to set up. Not only that, but that his party still needed to diagnose the loss of major metropolitan cities as well as what had gone wrong in the party, he said. It is critical for us to discuss the impact on the organisation of the ANC being in government and our cadres having access to state power and resources. Additional reporting by Rochelle de Kock Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share