ANC presidential hopefuls came calling and met their backers in big political race, writes Johnnie Issac Nelson Mandela Bay was a hive of political activity as four ANC presidential hopefuls jetted into the city this week. They interacted with various communities and stakeholders, and also took the time to meet with some of their backers, who will play a crucial role in securing them the top spot at the party s December elective conference. However, as a city that no longer commands the numbers it used to in order to shape the ANC s national agenda, political analyst Professor Mcebisi Ndletyana said the presence of some of the big guns in the Bay was a mere case of trying to win over as many votes as possible. Strictly speaking, Nelson Mandela Bay is relatively small in terms of numbers. What this shows is that every vote counts, everyone is trying to win whatever votes they can get out of the region, Ndletyana said. The week started off with a visit by the ANC s former treasurer-general, Mathews Phosa, on Sunday, followed by former AU chairwoman Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma on Monday, Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu on Tuesday and Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday. All four are believed to be vying for the ANC s presidential spot to take over from current president Jacob Zuma. On Sunday, Phosa got the backing of the Bay s Ward 40 branch, in Kuyga, who said they wanted a man of his calibre to lead the party. He called for the party s national executive to step down for its failure to remove Zuma as president. Ward 40 branch deputy chairwoman Nonki Plaatjie said Phosa was a respected ANC leader who was available to do his 67 minutes of Nelson Mandela Day activities with the branch. We felt that the programme would benefit our community because we sometimes feel neglected at Kuyga. We welcome other ANC leaders if they want to come to the branch, Plaatjie said. Dlamini-Zuma took her campaign to Port Elizabeth s northern areas, where she handed out blankets in Malabar and called for unity in the ANC. She also had closed-door meetings with local members of the ANC Women s League and a task team of the Youth League. Nkululeko Mali, chairman of the ANC in the Malabar area, said they wanted someone of high calibre and stature to interact with the community. He said Dlamini-Zuma had been ready to lead the country since the time she had contested to be the deputy of former president Thabo Mbeki. This is the time for women to lead and there is no other woman in the country who is more capable. She has led the African Union and would have been Mbeki s deputy. She would have been the president, Mali said ANC provincial executive member Andile Lungisa, who is one of the key players spearheading Dlamini-Zuma s Eastern Cape campaign, said she had a groundswell of support in the Bay. He even boasted about her addressing a full lecture hall at Rhodes University on Tuesday night. But Ndletyana said while Lungisa wanted all to believe that the Bay region was behind Dlamini-Zuma, it was not unanimous. On Tuesday, Sisulu refused to talk politics, saying her programme of handing out title deeds was not the platform to discuss her presidential aspirations. Her supporters are, however, working furiously behind the scenes to ensure she gets a spot in the top six of the ANC. One of her lobbyists in the Bay, who declined to be named, said they had not had an opportunity to discuss her campaign this week, but she would be back soon. A Women s League regional member, Nomvuselelo Tontsi, one of Sisulu s backers, said she would support Sisulu if she was vying for the deputy president position because in the ANC s succession history, the deputy president became the president. I am aware that she will be coming again, but that is also a programme that was organised by the women in the region. We will wait to hear then if she tells us what the plans are, Tontsi said. Meanwhile, Ramaphosa, who was the keynote speaker at the launch of Nelson Mandela University s name change, met with the Ward 31 branch in Missionvale afterwards. Branch secretary Zukisa Mankabane said they had hoped to hear Ramaphosa s address at the university, but had decided to invite him when they could not get in. Mankabane said Ramaphosa was the favoured candidate in his branch to lead and restore the tainted integrity of the ANC The integrity of the ANC is tarnished as we speak. We have to join hands in saving it. Only one leader can do that and it is comrade Cyril Ramaphosa. Otherwise there will be no South Africa to lead if we can t save the ANC first, Mankabane said. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share