Picture: Mark West Here s what s happening in property in the area. Mount Pleasant has become one of Port Elizabeth s most popular suburbs, and has seen growing interest among buyers in recent years, particularly from young and upcoming couples wanting to set up homes and start families. Industrial engineer and resident of Mount Pleasant, Jean-Claude Tobias, loves this peaceful little community in Port Elizabeth. Jean-Claude, who lives with his wife, two sons and two dogs, has been a resident of Mount Pleasant for the past 20 years. The biggest drawcard for me was that Mount Pleasant was deemed to be the next area of development in PE, which has happened. It s also close to schools, shops and the sea. Homes range from traditional family homes to new, modern townhouse complexes. According to JeanClaude, their home is standard for the area. A standard size would be about 250m2 to 300m2 and most of us have swimming pools. Many houses also have large gardens which enable residents to enjoy family activities without space constraints. The area itself is mostly quiet and bordered by greenery as far as the eye can see. The area is peaceful and always clean and with wellmaintained public areas, he says. There are a few things many don t know about the area, Jean-Claude chuckles, including that there are frequently people riding horses in the Tobias family s street. There s a karate dojo nearby that has been running for quite a few years. We also have the seasonal frogs coming into our yards at night for mating and then the next day they re gone. Mount Pleasant is just a few minutes drive from Sardinia Bay, a popular weekend escape for many who live here. Walking our dogs at Sardinia Bay is one of our favourite things to do. We also enjoy going to Mount Pleasant Spar for their excellent cooked food and bakery, and exploring the cycling routes to either Seaview or Marine Drive. &nbsp; &nbsp; Picture: Mark West THINGS TO DO NEARBY: Visit the Seaview Lion Park Spend the day at Sardinia Bay Beach Visit the Island Nature Reserve in Seaview Shop for country goodies at the Grass Roof farm stall &nbsp; Picture: Mark West DINE OUT: Mike s Kitchen in Mount Pleasant Fish Finder in Buffelsfontein Road Shanna s Portuguese Grill in Circular Drive Eagle Ridge Spur at Fig Tree Access Park Grass Roof on Seaview Road &nbsp; Picture: Mark West SCHOOLS NEARBY: Mount Pleasant Primary School Charlo Primary School St Dominic s Priory Theodor Herzl Schools DF Malherbe High School Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share