Dubai-based media mogul Ajay Sethi this week visited St George s Park, from where he will run his Port Elizabeth-based T20 Global League franchise. Picture: Mark West T20 Global League owner Ajay Sethi earned his success the hard way Some of the world s wealthiest people have been born into their money. But not too many will have started off with only a fist full of dollars and through hard work, dedication and a sheer will to succeed go on to deliver as spectacularly as Ajay Sethi has. The recently announced, 55-year-old owner of Port Elizabeth&#8217;s T20 Global League cricket franchise has a remarkable story to share. He was born in the serene surrounds and foothills of the Himalayas in a town called Dharamshala, but Lady Destiny had already identified the path Sethi would travel and it would prove to be a life-changing journey. She would whisk him out of India and transport him through East Africa, the United Arab Emirates and Iraq en route to making a fortune, having started with only $8 000 (R105 000). Four years ago he was estimated to be worth $130-million (R1.7-billion). Today, Sethi is one of Dubai s wealthiest businessmen who has interests in a wide range including automotive parts, real estate, internet, television, radio, cricket, golf and tennis. One of his business partners is World Cup-winning Indian allrounder Kapil Dev and some of his cricket friends include Sunil Gavaskar, Viv Richards and Kevin Pietersen. He also has connections with many Bollywood stars. After humble beginnings in Nairobi in 1985, Sethi is now one of the most prominent members of the Indian business community in the UAE with a mansion in Emirates Hills, Dubai. He mixes with high society, Bollywood stars, international cricketers and tennis players. But the one thing he says he never does is forget the roots which keep him firmly grounded. He was born to a middle-class family in Dharamshala but his parents soon moved to Chandigarh, where Sethi was schooled and completed university. I always wanted to move out of India and find my niche, Sethi told the Weekend Post this week. From the age of 12, I wanted to venture out of India. That was my goal. But as a 21-year-old, he would have to make a career-defining choice which saw him forego a sought-after career in the Indian Army. When we were at university, all my friends wanted to join the Indian Army. As a graduate they give you an officer s rank. I did the Indian Army Academy examination and I passed. But then I thought to myself I never want to go to the army . But all my friends were so excited because it s difficult to get the officer s rank. However, I think it was my inner conscience that steered me in the right direction. The army is a great job and it s a great service anyone can give but my inner thought was always that I was to become an entrepreneur. So I did not go to the training. Everyone laughed at me when I turned it down. But that was my destiny, said the father of three. So in 1984, aged 20, a cousin in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, invited him work there at a textile factory, but that did not turn out as he had hoped for. Julius Nyerere was president at the time and the country was under a socialist regime. Life was very tough and I started feeling homesick for India. It was not my cup of tea and I wanted to go back home. But I had another relative who lived in Nairobi, which was very close to where I was, so I thought on my way back to India I would pass by and say hello to my uncle. I was shocked when I got to Nairobi. It was a buzzing city and very cosmopolitan and a lot of colonial influence and business opportunities. So I joined a company as an auto parts assistant sales manager. I happened to land a big client they had been battling to get by name of General Motors and they were so impressed they said I was to travel around Africa for them procuring business. But Sethi had greater plans. I only worked there for four months and 16 days as I thought to myself why line someone else s pockets when I can make my own money . So I went back to Chandigarh to try and convince my dad to give me some kind of capital. He asked me how I could start a business with just four months and 16 days experience. I told him: If you give me this money, I will return it three times in one year . In the end, he loaned me $8 000 and I gave him $30 000 (R392 494) back in six months. Of course, he told me to keep it. I then bought some electrical parts in Dubai and shipped them to Nairobi, where I started a small business. The first shipment I made about $25 000 (R327 078) profit. The margin was 400%, so it was a great success, he smiled. After 10 years, he married and moved to Dubai, which had become like his second home after numerous trips between there and Nairobi every year. He had much bigger goals although he retained the auto electrical business in Nairobi and still has it. In Dubai he set up the same automotive business. Once in Dubai, he got another break. We landed a contract in Iraq which saw us supply 3 500 trucks and other government supplies under the Iraqi government procurement programme after winning supply bids to various Iraqi ministries. It was the major turning point in my life. It was very, very lucrative, Sethi revealed. Between 1997 and 2003, he travelled 15 times to Iraq overland from Amman. Nobody else wanted to go there. However, the final Gulf war in 2003 seriously affected my business. But as they say when one door closes, another opens and it was at that time that the real estate market started to pick up in Dubai, creating opportunities. In the old days you couldn&#8217;t own property in Dubai. Everything was owned by the locals and the government. In 2000-2001 the government began to change the policy so I started investing in property and also started my media business there. Two hours of prime-time television from 7 to 9 is how I started in Dubai. Then I got in with the Kenyan Broadcasting Corporation and set up a 24hour entertainment channel called Channel 2. We launched it in 2007. He then acquired the cricket broadcast TV rights for Africa in 2010 for nine countries from Nimbus Sports for BCCI including live cricket feed from South Africa. He has also been in partnership with SABC radio for the past 10 years. His tennis franchise the Singapore Slammers has included marque players like Serena Williams and Novak Djokovic. He has a 900-acre golf course development in Ahmedabad, India, with real estate around it and he also invested in the St Lucia Zouks, who play in the Caribbean Premier League. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share