Artist and facilitator Mkhonto Gwazela Artwork by emerging artists from around Nelson Mandela Bay will be on display at the Athenaeum for the opening exhibition of the Sketchbook Vansa Visual Art Workshop on Thursday. The different mediums expected at the exhibition include pencil drawings, oil and soft pastels on different kinds of paper. Facilitator of the visual art workshop, artist Mkonto Gwazela, said the programme and exhibition consisted of artwork by young artists from around the Bay who were selected to be part of the workshop, which started in May. The workshop assists young visual artists and is sort of a non-traditional residence programme where we re doing theory, learning and practice, Gwazela said. Now in its second year, the workshop was sponsored by the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality and the Arts Council. Gwazela said it started off with 15 young artists from the Bay s six residential clusters and was aimed at creating young professional artists. For you to become a professional artist, there should be a record of 10 000 hours where you have invested time in honing your talent and skills. And because art materials are so expensive, this workshop gave these young artists the opportunity to experiment with other materials, exposed them to their fields and nurtured them while making them stronger and broadening their minds, he said. Anele Zephe, of New Brighton, said he was excited about exhibiting and praised the workshop for giving artists such as himself an opportunity they otherwise would not have had. Drawing and painting has always been a passion of mine but in order to please [my] parents, I didn t really follow that passion. I ve exhibited before as part of a group but I think I m most excited about this project because it s going back to the basics of drawing and sketching, which is where the love of painting originated from for me, Zephe said. The Sketchbook Vansa Visual Art Workshop exhibition opens at 5.30pm for 6pm at the Athenaeum. For further information, contact Gwazela on 072-940-0939. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share