It takes a village to raise a child, writes St Francis Bay freelance journalist Beth Cooper Howell in Woman on Top, her weekly lifestyle column for The Herald. I don t think one parent can raise a child. I don t think two parents can raise a child. You really need the whole village. Toni Morrison is one of my favourite writers, but I discovered only today that this quote is hers. Would that we could all be so pithy and wise in one sentence, because 21st-century mothers need all the help that they can get. My friend Roxanne and I were recently analysing the death of the neighbourhood gang. Nostalgia paints a prettier picture of childhood, the older you get, so we may have forgotten that TV only started at 4pm and that we did, in fact, get bored, just as our kids do. But overall, the village mentality was stronger then and I mourn its passing. When I was small, my mother didn t really know where I was in the afternoons, although there were only a limited number of play spaces in our sleepy suburbia. I d be next door with Marli and Jana, or exploring the back-end of the universe on Saturdays (the deserted primary school grounds up the road) and perhaps dodging duiweltjie thorns on the short-cut path to our corner caf , which sold lucky packets and Super-M milkshakes for a handful of change. Today I always know where my kids are. Hell, everybody knows where they are, because a responsible parent is always with them. No wonder my daughter views a solitary cycle down the road and back as a grand adventure. The child s never been out of sight of an adult otherwise. The passing of community-mindedness has left so many gaps in its wake. We re not only forced to be more involved in our kids lives organising play dates and lifts there and back but seem to spend a lot more time behind walls, rather than leaning over them to chat to her-next-door. Neighbourhoods are so quiet everybody s left to go somewhere else; to study, have meetings, mall-shop and work. It s a sign of the times that when my friend Leila comes back to our village on holiday from Dubai, my life transforms into old-fashioned, pleasantly languid parenting. They live up the road so the kids walk. If one of them ain t home, they just walk back. Some of my best friends are people I met away from home or moms I bump into occasionally at the shop, but who don t live next door. Yet, some of my mother s closest connections were ordinary Susans who so happened to move into number 12, or 14, at around about the same time that we sank roots at number 10 for a few years. I feel a yearning for simpler times when we didn t schedule a coffee two weeks in advance at an expensive, perky and well-decorated restaurant. Today, I might just take off work early, roll curlers into my hair and walk across the road to knock on Susan s door (her name really is Susan and she lives at number 11) with a bag of muffins. If she ain t home, I can just walk back again, after all. St Francis Bay freelance journalist Beth Cooper Howell takes a look at the other side of life in Woman on Top, her weekly lifestyle column for The Herald &nbsp; Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share