The award-winning play about male initiation, Tau , is being staged at the National Arts Festival in Grahamstown. Picture: Neo Ntsoma Rising concerns over the initiation death toll and serious injuries associated with the male rite of passage inspired the award-winning play, Tau. Thabiso Rammala, 28, said he scripted a piece which honoured the essence of the sacred rite taking a youth through a cultural and identity transition to emerge as a good man. However, he has linked the distortion, exploitation and damage caused by unscrupulous initiation schools to problems with dysfunctional families, and believes this unsavoury brew is an underlying cause of gender violence. Throw in the issue of the central character in Tau being gay and it s not hard to understand why the piece has sparked conversation and controversy. Tau won the Zwakala Festival hosted by the Market Theatre in Johannesburg in 2015, and this year won three Naledi awards for best ensemble, best original choreography and best lighting design. It is set in a Sesotho cultural landscape and while Rammala acknowledges Sesotho initiation rites differ from, say, Xhosa and Zulu rites, he is adamant the issues raised by Tau are universal. The ancient rite of going to the mountain took place in an evolving social world, he said. Gay people go to the mountain and how do they survive? he asked, suggesting the play did provide some answers. I could not understand the deaths happening on the mountain. When 22 died on a day it was a shock. I did the work, the research, and asked what are we missing as Basotho? I asked what if men are found kissing on the mountain? Audiences were definitely not happy with me revealing that side of a story so important and secret to us, but they were open to having a conversation, he said. Performer Khothatso Mogwera, who plays Tau, said: Actually we had a gay guy walk out because it was too much for him. Rammala said some young men fresh from the initiation schools also walked out, because the story agitated them. He has also looked at the conflict between patriarchy and matriarchy. Tau s father is an upright traditionalist and his mother a modern-day advocate of the emancipation of women. While there is a growing body of art and media around the problems which have blighted initiation, the pair feel their play takes the theme further by looking at sexuality of initiates. It also raised hackles that a woman, MoMo Matsunyane, co-directed with Rammala. What does she know as a woman? was the comment they heard from some theatre-goers. Tau plays at the Drill Hall today, tomorrow, Thursday and Friday. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share