Ex-Chippa captain and star defender James Okwuosa is back in the Bay Picture: Gallo Images Defence and midfield priorities in selection of new Chippa players Defence and midfield are the priorities, Chippa United announced when revealing the names of the new players brought in to bolster the Port Elizabeth squad s ranks. In an announcement on their social media platforms, the Chilli Boys listed the names of 11 new signings as they continue their preparations for the start of the Premier Soccer League 2017-18 season. Last week, the club confirmed the signing of Orlando Pirates goalkeeper Brighton Mhlongo and Mark Mayambela, who returns to Chippa after spending last season at Ajax Cape Town. The other signings see the return of former Chilli Boys skipper and defender James Okwuosa, from Orlando Pirates, and centreback Zitha Macheke, who was with Thanda Royal Zulu. Chippa head coach Dan Malesela has also brought in Cape Town All Stars players, defender Phetso Maphanga, midfielder Stanley Makgoka, centreback Gerald Modisane and defensive midfielder Mlungisi Mbunjana. Other recruits include striker Moeketsi Sekola, on loan from Highlands Park, Mamelodi Sundowns midfielder Samuel Julies and Xolani Maholo, who has been promoted to the first team from Chippa s MultiChoice Diski Challenge team. Chippa boss Siviwe Mpengesi is confident the new recruits will ensure that the team improve on their 13th-place finish of last season. If you look at the squad we had when we finished in sixth position during the 2015-16 season, it was a balanced team with young and experienced players, Mpengesi said. We have the same thing this season. We have players like Mark Mayambela, Kurt Lentjies, Brighton Mhlongo and Samuel Julies who have been in the PSL. This last season, our focus was to strengthen our team at the back. As you will see, most of the players we have brought in are defenders with the likes of James Okwuosa, Phetso Maphanga and, of course, our goalkeeper Brighton Mhlongo. We have also beefed up our shaky midfield because last season we struggled a lot with injures. Mpengesi said he had now closed his cheque book and instead of bringing in new players, they would be releasing some. We have a bulk of players that we have parted ways with, the likes of David Zulu, Linda Shiba, Xolani Mdaki, Zama Dlamini and many more, he said. More players will be released once the team is back from their premier league season camp in Durban, he said. Meanwhile, the team s fans will get their first look at the new stars when Chippa United face Soweto giants Kaizer Chiefs on Saturday next week in the Premier s Cup at the Sisa Dukashe Stadium in Mdantsane, East London. This will be the first time AmaKhosi will be playing at the NU2 venue. Last season, the Chilli Boys played African champions Mamelodi Sundowns, Ajax Cape Town, Golden Arrows and Highlands Park at the Sisa Dukashe Stadium, while EC Bees also hosted Orlando Pirates at that stadium. Mpengesi confirmed that the Chiefs game was one of eight planned matches the Port Elizabeth-based Chilli Boys would play in the Buffalo City metro. These will be six PSL games, while Orlando Pirates is expected to play in the Mayoral Cup against Chippa in Mdantsane. We are doing this for our fans in Buffalo City and it is good that the provincial government continues to be involved with the team, Mpengesi said. This match will be great entertainment for everyone, because I know Kaizer Chiefs has a big fan base in Eastern Cape. Most importantly, the game will set a tone for our team in this coming PSL season. Mpengesi said he wanted to thank Premier Phumulo Masualle for providing such a platform for the team since 2014. The Sport Department, Safa BCM and host city Buffalo City have been supportive and we are very humbled. The Buffalo City metro said the pitch would be in perfect condition after the old drainage system had been replaced. Buffalo City mayor office manager Sthembiso Khanyile said: If you remember that match against Sundowns, it had rained for about a week before. The system was not performing optimally. We have replaced it and some grass patches. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share