GMSA supplier Coega Autospray faces liquidation Top SA lawyers, business folk set to lose millions as supplier faces liquidation Some of South Africa s best-known lawyers and businessmen are among the first casualties who stand to lose millions of rands with General Motors SA (GMSA) pulling out of the country. Papers have now been filed with the Port Elizabeth High Court to have Coega Autospray the first company which may have to shut its doors due to GM s multibillion rand exit placed under provisional liquidation. The move could see about 80 workers lose their jobs. With GMSA s exit of South Africa, Coega Autospray is unlikely to have any funds to finance any continuation of its business, court papers state. On May 8, GMSA announced its decision to leave the SA market and to sell its Port Elizabeth plant to Isuzu. The application for liquidation is driven by the trustees of Vumela Enterprise Development Fund Trust, which claims Coega Autospray now owes it more than R33-million. Andrew Buchanan, head of Vumela s post investment management, said in an affidavit that despite numerous demands to be reimbursed, Coega Autospray had failed, refused and neglected to take any corrective steps. He said as a result, Vumela was currently in arrears with certain creditors, its landlord and the SA Revenue Service. Buchanan said a resolution had been passed by their trustees on June 20 to move for liquidation of the Uitenhage-based company. The application is due to be heard on Tuesday. Coega Autospray, a manufacturer of plastic trim components for the automotive industry, primarily GMSA, opened its doors in 2001. But now, if the application for liquidation succeeds, it could put the shareholders of Vuwa Investments, a 51% shareholder of Coega Autospray, millions of rands out of pocket. This includes: SA s first national director of public prosecutions, Bulelani Ngcuka; Legal adviser and businessman Lungisa Dyosi; Founding partner of law firm Smith Tabata Inc, Dumisani Tabata; Former acting Neotel CEO Kennedy Memani; and Businessman Albert Nemukula. Coega Autospray acting CEO Mark Gilbert said he was not sure what the future held for the company and that he had first heard about the court application through his suppliers. [The suppliers] have all been very supportive in assisting us to continue to supply GM. The liquidation application came as a surprise and was not communicated to us by Vumela, Gilbert said. Buchanan explained that it was part of Vumela s portfolio to invest in high-calibre small- and mediumsized enterprises (SMEs). Edge Growth Business Development is the fund manager for Vumela and therefore undertook to oversee all its deal making and post investments. With the business development support offered by Edge Growth, these SMEs are likely to experience rapid growth and in so doing, facilitate job creation, Buchanan said. In 2011, Coega Autospray approached Vumela for a loan of R15-million. Funding was provided in terms of a convertible loan agreement on December 14 2011, with stringent repayment terms set out. Further loan agreements were concluded between the parties. Buchanan said GMSA Coega Autospray s main customer, which provides about 85% of its revenue intended to cease local manufacturing and selling its Chevrolet vehicles in the domestic market by December 31. For the last number of years, GMSA have been ordering lower than the initial order targets. This is one of the main reasons for their current financial predicament. Coega Autospray is unlikely to survive on only the volumes it is likely to receive from Isuzu, as Isuzu only produces approximately 85 vehicles per month as opposed to the 100 vehicles GMSA produces each day. Buchanan said their account system reflected Coega Autospray was technically insolvent in that its total liabilities an amount of R57-million exceeded its total assets of around R45-million. Buchanan, Ngcuka and Tabata could not be reached for comment. Renai Moothilal, director of the National Association of Automotive Component and Allied Manufacturers, said the association was concerned about the impact on the supplier base caused by GMSA s exit. The loss of a vehicle assembler is detrimental at any time, given the long and often cross-cutting supply chains that follow vehicle production. The associated loss of jobs, technology, skills and business opportunities is an unpleasant occurrence, he said. Moothilal said the association had interacted extensively with senior management at GMSA to understand the strategy and mitigating actions taken with their supply base. Similarly, the GM team has directly engaged with each of their direct suppliers. We are aware of just one company that was supplying GM exclusively, and of course that company is dealing with the negative effect of this decision. Meanwhile, OPM Tooling chief executive Michael Kliment said as a result of GM s exit he was forced to retrench five of his 50 employees. He said these employees had been specifically trained to produce parts based on GM s specifications. Before GM s shock announcement earlier this year OPM Tooling had provided parts for Corsa and Isuzu bakkies. It is not as bad as we first anticipated. When the announcement was made it was a shock to the system and we thought we may need to lose 20 people. We are losing five, but even one job lost is one too many, Kliment said. We have worked out retrenchment packages for these staff members and are also checking whether we can get them placed at one of our suppliers. It is incredibly sad and even the guy at GM who I worked with is losing his job. Too many jobs have been lost now. Fortunately GM has been helping us as suppliers. They have taken parts and built up a two-year stock and have made payments for parts already ordered. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share