Rob van Vuuren In Grahamstown at festival time, you can expect to be impressed and also sometimes depressed. Just ask Rob van Vuuren, a veteran stage act of 22 National Arts Festivals who has seen his fair share of the good, the bad and the yawningly boring. Joining Weekend Post on a walkabout of his favourite haunts, the Port Elizabeth-born funnyman said there had been many highlights. However, his least enjoyable moment was watching Underground to Canada with two of his friends back when he was in Grade 10 26 years ago. It was a two-and-a-half-hour musical which went on and on. There were about eight people in the audience, including us. At the end of the show we clapped because it was over and out of sympathy and that gave them the cue to sing all the songs over again. I am still getting over that, the Rhodes University alumni quipped. But there s nothing like rejection to get a wannabe performer revved up. I was bitterly disappointed when in second year at varsity the [Rhodes] production department didn t select me for their show so a friend and I put on our own show. Sipping on a strong brew from his favourite coffee shop, Homeground Coffee Roasters in Somerset Street, Van Vuuren said: Artists ask me for advice and I simply don t know any more. Performing most of his prolific, 30-odd shows over 11 days on the Fringe, he said he enjoyed this arena because it allowed for spontaneity and was less rigid . It s a place where you get really sh*t stuff, but also some amazing things happen there as well. Performing at least three shows daily, he said he had little time to unwind, especially with six-year-old daughter Bijou in tow. I can t go out and party so much any more. After shows I try to get some sleep, take my vitamins and drink lots of water. After a long day and night of performing, Van Vuuren said he sometimes ended up at the Grahamstown Bowling Club, where he enjoyed listening to other stand-up comedians ply their trade. We also sometimes end up at the Long Table all performers end up there. For a good lunch, Van Vuuren recommends a green curry from Caf D vine in New Street. It is wonderful there it has this spot outside where you don t necessarily feel you are in Grahamstown. Not having much time to catch shows, Van Vuuren treated himself to a night out to see Desmond and the Tutus on Thursday because it s nice to get away from my routine . As for Village Green stall shopping, he recommends a beanie or scarf made from alpaca fur although they re not cheap. When it comes to accommodation, it s good to touch base with his family. Staying at a self-catering bed and breakfast, Van Vuuren and his wife Danielle Bischoff try to maintain a routine for their daughter, which includes family breakfasts and sometimes a braai in the evening if we get a chance . What Van Vuuren misses most though is not being a regular festival-goer anymore. I miss just walking around and seeing stuff. The festival is a unique space where you can immerse yourself in the cultural heartbeat of the country. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share