Abigail Madumbo is the Eastern Cape finalist who will represent the province at the Shoprite TopStars finale in Cape Town A 19-year-old cashier from Beaufort West has been named the Eastern Cape s finalist in the Shoprite TopStars singing competition. Abigail Madumbo sang her heart out at the glittering talent search at the Beach Hotel last week, wowing the audience with a powerful rendition of Christina Aguilera s Hurt. Madumbo could not hide her emotions after being announced as the talent who would represent the province at the finale to be held in Cape Town towards the end of the year. The teenager said she was most excited about travelling to Cape Town and visiting its sites, as well as receiving performance coaching and motivational inspiration from mentors in the music industry ahead of the finale. She said she came from a music family and, with her father being a pastor, sang regularly at church. I m excited, I don t really know how to feel but I am very happy and didn t expect this. I worked hard, did what I had to, showed off the emotion of the song and it paid off, she said. Madumbo, who had only been working at Checkers Beaufort West for a few months since matriculating from Bastiaanse Secondary School, said her brother had motivated her to enter the competition. I wanted to study this year but because of funds I wasn t able to so. I work at Checkers and I m saving up to hopefully study education at Wellington CPUT next year, she said. The popular contest is presented by the Shoprite group of companies for its employees and is in its 11th year. It is produced by local music legend Mynie Grov , who described TopStars as a wonderful example of how empowering and uplifting the expression of musical talent can be for everyone . Grov said TopStars had started off as a choir competition but any and all talents were now welcome. We re looking for the best voice but also the entire package, someone who can hold their own on the stage, takes instruction when we re doing performance coaching and build on it, Grov said. Nine finalists will take part in the finale at a date still to be decided. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share