2016 Kitchen Maestro winner Caitlin Botha Calling all whisk-takers! The heat is on to find the fifth Walmer Park Kitchen Maestro, so fasten your aprons and sharpen those knives for this year s edition of the popular Walmer Park Kitchen Maestro competition. July will mark the start of season five of the competition presented by Walmer Park Shopping Centre in association with Weekend Post. The search is on to find the best amateur home cook our city can offer. The competition will kick off with a Food Truck challenge next Saturday July 8 at 11am in Walmer Park s Centre Court area. Three of the Bay s best-known food truck owners will pull in to battle it out against three past Kitchen Maestro winners. Food truck owners Dewald Hurter from Makoy Food Truck, Flair Catering and newly opened The Kitchen will be joined by Janey Nortje from Ground Floor Cafe and Julie George from Gourmet Girl. They will be up against the Kitchen Maestro 2013 winner, Martinette Magnee; 2015 winner, Dallas Land and 2016 winner, Caitlin Botha. Each cook will demonstrate their individual skill and interpretation of street food with a gourmet twist . Audience members will then get to taste the delicious food prepared at the cook-off. After the launch cook-off, each week Walmer Park will host tasty competition rounds from July 15 to July 29 where we will see six home cooks being challenged by this year s Kitchen Maestro theme, Street Food Meets the Kitchen . Each weekly cook-off challenge will be inspired by mentoring chef Dewald Hurter. Cook-off 1 will be a burger challenge, cook-off 2 a taco challenge and cook-off 3 a pizza challenge. Contestants will be given the basic ingredients to create the challenged dish but will have to be creative and add their own gourmet twist to the dish to impress the judges. The top two home cooks from each of the three cook-off rounds will move on to the semifinals, the Le Creuset challenge, to be held on Saturday August 5, where the six semifinalists will be given a recipe from Le Creuset to prepare for the judges. The top two from the Le Creuset challenge will then proceed to the final cook-off on Sunday August 6. All cook-off rounds will be held at 11am. Confident Bay cooks have a golden opportunity to enter and show off their culinary skills in a bid to claim the title of the next Walmer Park Kitchen Maestro. This year the total prize package is valued at more than R50000, Walmer Park s PR and marketing manager, Deveda Bloem, said. All contestants will receive fantastic prizes and there will be loads of audience giveaways at each cook-off too. Prizes are sponsored by Rafi s Appliances together with Swiss Appliances, Le Creuset, Cerebos Salt, Ultimate Stylists, The Rocket Seed, John Dory s, Two Oceans Wines, All Weather Friend, Fogarty s Bookshop, Dulce Caf , Home Etc and Tefal. To enter simply collect an entry form from the information kiosk in Walmer Park. Alternatively visit the Walmer Park Shopping Centre website at www.walmerparkshoppingcentre.co.za and follow the link to the Kitchen Maestro page to download the entry form. Completed entry forms must either be e-mailed to dbloem@growthpoint.co.za or hand-delivered to the information kiosk at Walmer Park by 12pm on the Wednesday prior to the Saturday cook-off each week. Six entrants will be chosen for each week s live cook-off and contacted telephonically to confirm their participation. For more information on the 2017 Walmer Park Kitchen Maestro competition contact Deveda Bloem on (041)368-2690, via e-mail dbloem@growthpoint.co.za or visit the Walmer Park Shopping Centre website and Facebook Page. Do also check out Weekend Post every Saturday for weekly cook-off updates. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share