Cause yet to be determined as flames erupt on same day as Gauteng premier s office blaze Barely hours after the office of the premier in Gauteng burned down, Eastern Cape premier Phumulo Masualle s offices also went up in flames in Bhisho yesterday. The fire was noticed at about 3pm when an employee saw smoke coming from the storage area where the Office of the Premier (OTP) keeps its archives. The main building was not affected. It s one of those things that on a day like this [the ANC policy conference] can be quite confusing, Masualle told reporters. JUST IN: Unconfirmed reports are coming through that the Office of the Eastern Cape premier Phumulo Masualle is on fire. pic.twitter.com/tJgoAPCB5p Mpinga (@SipheMacanda) June 30, 2017 It does appear that the area in which the fire broke out was used for storing records . . . it s early days to really speak [about] the extent of the damage. We have to do some investigation to get all the information and perhaps we can then tell what we really lost. The National Health and Allied Workers Union said they would request an investigation as the fire looked suspicious. Chief operations officer Luvuyo Mabombo said they could not say how the fire had started as the area contained only documents. The fire came as a shock and an inconvenience to us, but we are happy that no injuries have been reported, he said. People were quickly evacuated from the building. The fire engine was summoned from East London and put out the fire before it could do much damage. When reporters arrived in Bhisho yesterday, staff members were standing at a fuel station close to the OTP buildings. Police were already on the scene and no one was allowed to go into the premises. The area is being treated as a crime scene. Employees and those working around the Bhisho precinct uploaded pictures on social media. SAPS King William s Town cluster commander Brigadier Luntu Ngubelanga said fire experts had been called to the scene. He said police had yet to determine whether the fire had been caused intentionally or by an electric fault. Earlier yesterday, fire destroyed the offices of Gauteng premier David Makhura after an electrical fault sparked a blaze on one of the floors of the building. Roads leading to the office in the Johannesburg city centre were closed off following the fire in Simmonds Street. Smoke could be seen at the top of the building as paramedics fire services and police attended the scene. All officials have been evacuated and are safe. The City of Johannesburg fire department will investigate the cause of the fire, the premier s office said in a statement. Once the fire department has established the cause of the fire it will be communicated to the public. Makhura later told reporters what he had learnt about how the fire had started. The fire at 8.40am on the seventh floor was in an office, where there were already people obviously and was as a result of a [faulty] electrical plug Makhura said. There was someone who knew exactly what the cause of the fire was. The part of the building that caught fire housed the finance division. Makhura said all 280 staff had been evacuated within eight minutes, and firefighters were on site within 15 minutes and put out the fire within an hour. He said whatever information had been burnt on the seventh floor was safe as the office had off-site storage facilities where information was backed up. TMG Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share