Those in need face lengthy queues at Department of Health clinics in Nelson Mandela Bay. Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Threats and abuse haunt Bay nurses Harassment, threats, vulgar insults and being robbed at gunpoint, while also dealing with staff shortages, low medicine stocks and deteriorating infrastructure. These are the conditions nurses are forced to work under in some of the 48 clinics in Nelson Man- dela Bay which are managed by the Department of Health. Weekend Post visited 15 clinics this week follow- ing the deaths of Siyabonga Jim, 20, and Yonela Nqokoto, 18, last month after leaving Lunga Kobese Clinic in Kwazakhele and Booysen Park Clinic re- spectively. Furthermore, Sandiswa Thunyiswa, 29, gave birth on the side of the road last Wednesday after nurses at Booysen Park Clinic had insisted she was not in labour. The three incidents have once again put the spot- light on the state of clinics in Nelson Mandela Bay, with nurses describing it as a ticking time-bomb. A nurse, who asked not to be named for fear of reprisal, said patients were often given the wrong impression by politicians who used clinics to lobby for votes ahead of elections. When the Lunga Kobese Clinic was opened, So- cial Development MEC Nancy Sihlwayi told resi- dents the clinic was built for them and belonged to them. She told residents that the nurses would do whatever they wanted them to do, she said. I never to go to an opening of a facility because what politicians say at these events has left people thinking they can do and say to us what they want. So people walk in and out of here and do what- ever they want, from robbing us at gunpoint to call- ing us all kinds of names, she said. Another nurse, who has more than 20 years of experience, said the abuse had led to several nurs- es retiring early due to depression. The reality is that we are all depressed but we will hide it. And it is poor working conditions, bad treatment from residents and the crime in these areas that causes it. Coming to work is frightening. When you wake up and get ready for work you are scared. There is no guarantee that your car will be safe, your phone won t be taken, and you don t know if your life won t be taken and that you will return home to your children. We don t have any protection. On the long queues, one nurse said: They walk up and down in frustration and even ask why we are slow and that they are in a hurry. They don t ask themselves why there is only one person here re- sponsible for TB patients, but who also has to deal with first-time HIV patients. Long waits can end with no treatment Spending up to eight hours in a queue and being turned away at the last minute is just one of the realities patients looking for help at clinics across Nelson Mandela Bay face daily. And despite complaints by patients to clinic bosses, they feel nothing is being done to improve the situation. A Weekend Post visit to 15 clinics this week re- vealed that patients must also contend with crime, medicine shortages and even water outages. Rosedale and Motherwell residents often spend up to eight hours queuing at clinics, knowing there is a possibility they will not even see a doctor or receive medicine. Residents waiting in the queue on Monday at the Rosedale Community Clinic exchanged stories of when the clinic had been closed due to water cuts. Seated with a child in each arm, Dane Willemse said she had had to hitchhike with her new-born baby after being turned away earlier this year. When I arrived at the clinic about two months ago for my child s six-week injection, the clinic was closed because there was no water. I didn t have taxi fare, so I started walking to a clinic in town and luckily I got a lift. But it is a bad situation because the number of people in the area keeps growing but nothing is improved, Willemse said. Carol Murphy said that on a visit to the clinic earlier this month, she had not been able to collect her prescribed medication as a result of the dis- pensary being out stock. At the Gqeberha Clinic in Walmer Township, Pa- tricia Gangqaba said she had to look for a broom in the clinic to sweep the floor as she could no longer bare to sit in the dirt. In KwaNobuhle, crime seemed to be a major problem at its five clinics. It is really bad, these tsotsis [gangsters] sit and wait for the old people, especially when it s pay day or the day after, resident Edmund Maziza, said. Another issue plaguing health care in KwaNobu- hle is a shortage of staff. But resident Lawana Vaal- tein said it was a problem which the Department of Health had brought upon itself. His daughter, and others, applied for nursing va- cancies at the Uitenhage Provincial Hospital and were told in January they were successful. It was a surprise to find out that when they re- ported for duty on May 2, almost two months after they confirmed their availability, the letters of em- ployment had not yet been signed at Bhisho. The group are still awaiting their appointment letters. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share