European Commission president JeanClaude Juncker at a media conference to mark the start of Estonia s six-month EU presidency. Picture: AFP European Commission chief Jean-Claude Juncker admitted yesterday he had not yet joined the smartphone revolution as he helped launch the EU presidency of digital-savvy Estonia. I shouldn t say but I have to say it, I still don t have a smartphone, the 62-year-old head of the EU s executive arm said at a news conference in the Baltic state s capital, Tallinn. So I couldn t become prime minister of Estonia, this would be totally impossible, Juncker said alongside a smiling Estonian premier Juri Ratas. Estonia, one of the world s most digitally connected countries, said it would push digital issues as part of its six-month stint as president of the EU, which begins today. Public life in Estonia takes place almost exclusively online, from registering children for school to voting, a comfort with computing the tiny nation is eager to instill in other EU nations. Juncker said Ratas was aware of his lack of a smartphone, which is why he sent me, like in the 19th century, a postcard inviting me to Tallinn . Juncker, a former Luxembourg prime minister, uses an old Nokia mobile phone, EU sources said. His admission comes 10 years after Apple introduced the iPhone and launched a global smartphone boom. It puts him in good technophobic company among world leaders, including German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who still does not have a Twitter account. But it stands in contrast with US President Donald Trump, a prolific Twitter user. Juncker spoke a day after attending an opening ceremony with Estonia s top officials and EU Council president Donald Tusk. Estonia said it would do its utmost not to let Brexit upstage its presidency. The discussion of the EU s future will be more important than where [EU chief negotiator Michel] Barnier and [Brexit minister David] Davis have arrived in their rounds of talks, a senior Estonian official said. Ratas said he wanted the free flow of information to become the EU s fifth fundamental freedom after freedom of movement for people, goods, capital and services. Juncker said: Even without being a techie, I know that our future is digital. Digital needs to become part of the European DNA. But in the wake of a huge global cyberattack which spread from Ukraine this week, security was also a priority, he said. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share