A couple in Berlin gets ready for a kiss as people celebrate Germany s legalisation of same-sex marriage. Picture: Reuters Crowds celebrate as parliamentarians, voting by conscience, allow same-sex marriage Gay and lesbian activists waving rainbow flags cheered in joyful celebration yesterday as Germany s parliament legalised samesex marriage, a victory in a decades-old rights struggle. Choose Love, read one banner in the about 100-strong crowd outside Chancellor Angela Merkel s office and near the Reichstag building housing the lower house. Champagne corks popped and whoops, cheers and whistle blasts went through the crowd braving summer rain as news broke that lawmakers inside the chamber had passed the historic bill. Among those celebrating from the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community was Soeren Landmann of the Marriage for All initiative. I got married a year ago in Scotland because we were not allowed to do it in Germany, he said. I am inconceivably happy that a couple that would like to get married won t have to go abroad for it any more, and that they can now get married here in a very normal way. Inside the chamber, where supporters threw confetti, the 393-226 vote spelled a victory especially for Greens party politician Volker Beck, 56, a veteran gay rights campaigner who was ending a 23-year career as a legislator yesterday. Today a bastion has fallen , he said on the move to allow full marriage rights rather than the civil unions introduced in 2001. He welcomed the speedy vote, which was forced by leftist parties three months before September 24 elections, saying: It spares us an election campaign fought on the backs of lesbians and gays . The law was pushed by centre-left Social Democrats, Greens and the far-left Linke party but also supported by 75 conservative legislators after Merkel allowed them to vote according to their conscience. The rapid series of events kicked off with an on-stage interview Merkel gave on Monday to women s magazine Brigitte, in which an audience member asked her: When can I call my boyfriend my husband if I want to marry him? Merkel, who had long opposed gay marriage with adoption rights, replied that she had changed her mind after meeting a lesbian couple who lovingly cared for eight foster children. I have thought a lot about the matter of child welfare and have now . . . have come to the conviction that same-sex couples should be able to jointly adopt children, she said. Many read the surprising comments as a move to rob opposition parties of a key campaign issue before September 24 elections. Merkel, herself, said she had voted against the measure, based on the belief that a marriage is between a man and a woman. The view was shared by Berlin Archbishop Heiner Koch, who voiced regret about the watering down of a sacred institution. Marriage as enshrined in the German constitution aimed to protect those who as mother and father give life to their children, he said. Most Germans, however, favour the change, which follows similar laws in many western democracies, with support from about threequarters of Germans, according to recent surveys. The Lesbian and Gay Association, which has pushed for the reform since 1990, welcomed the outcome, declaring that Germany has voted for love. This is a historic day, it said in a statement. Not only for lesbians and gays, but also for a more just and democratic society. Marriage would from now be based not on gender but on love, commitment and the promise to be there for each other in good times and in bad, it said. The next step, it said, would be to achieve full societal acceptance that guarantees everyone the right to be different, at any time, in any place, without fear and the threat of hostility. AFP Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share