To have a vision in far-away Sweden of creating an upmarket game lodge in the Eastern Cape, not something clouded in mystery, but rather a crystal clear vision projecting images of a contemporary boutique hotel fitting effortlessly into the environment, is far-reaching indeed. To follow through on that vision, creating a wildlife and sports lovers paradise in an unequalled setting, commanding both mountain and sea views, not only takes courage and determination but also a lot of blood, sweat and tears. There s also the ever-present threat that the massive cash injection such an ambitious project would obviously demand could prove to be a disastrous investment, but that s the chance that Tracy and Eric Roelofsen were prepared to take. Feeling the inevitable tug of Africa, the first step for the South African-born couple who now call Sweden home, was to embark on a farm-finding mission. But this could be no ordinary farm. It had to have the wow factor, just as its lodge would have in the fullness of time. That task fell to Tracy, who flew to South Africa alone, a woman on a mission. Eventually the search, for her at least, reached an end when she was taken to a 700ha property a scant 25km from Jeffreys Bay, and an easy 40-minute drive from Port Elizabeth. It was love at first sight, said Tracy. And what was not to love about an existing dairy farm with the Baviaanskloof and Cockscomb mountains to one side, and the world s most expensive fairy lights, in the form of Jeffreys Bay at night, to the other? That there would be an abundance of work ahead was obvious. True, there was an existing farmhouse but that would be home to Tracy, her husband and their three teenage children, who would have to be prised away from what had become home. And Eric, who had not yet seen the farm, would have to be persuaded that this was it. The farm with the wow factor, somewhere amazing and, above all, outstanding. So Eric flew to South Africa and, fortunately for Tracy, it was also love at first sight. The vision was to be realised, but that was certainly not going to happen overnight. This was to be a game reserve with a difference, one lacking the Big Five, but making up for that with a host of attractions from diverse game hiking trails during which sumptuous bush picnics can be enjoyed, to mountain biking, to game drives and to merely relaxing in one of the several lounges including a back-in-time cigar lounge or by the exquisite infinity pool at the boutique hotel. Work on the ambitious project began in February last year, with the plan being for a soft opening in November, but builders being builders Intle opened its doors on December 15 to a full house! For many people running a 20-person capacity hotel like this would be a real challenge, but to vivacious Tracy and her team (with strong support from her hubby and three children) rising to the occasion was easy and they have been tackling the teething problems which come with the territory ever since. For instance, the head chef was missing during our recent stay at this outstanding reserve. No problem. Chief juggler Tracy, again with hubby Eric by her side, stepped into the breach, cooking up a veritable storm in the kitchen (of that elsewhere) while still handling reservation inquiries, guest arrivals and also stepping in as a part-time nanny for guests with a lively 11-month-old baby on their hands. I know what it s like to not have a hot meal in many months, Tracy said as she wandered off, contented baby in her arms, and an even more contented couple left to enjoy a rare few moments of togetherness. Of course, then there s the accommodation. As you would expect from a game reserve of Intle s standard, accommodation is up-market and diverse. Our room for our two-night stay was a spacious affair, with a king-sized bed, comfortable armchair and side table, TV, bar fridge plus tea and coffee-making facilities. The bathroom was intriguing, being divided from the bedroom by discreet frosted glass which gave the whole room a contemporary feel. But perhaps the most enjoyable part of our room was the balcony from which we enjoyed views of the sandy coastline down to Jeffreys Bay and also the Baviaanskloof/Cockscomb mountains. Other rooms do not have sea views, but make up for this with a bath (our room only had a shower) from which to savour the intricacy of the mountains, with their ever-changing hues, in the not-too-far distance. Suites can also be converted into family suites for larger groups. Completing the accommodation at the boutique hotel, there s also a presidential suite, complete with your own jacuzzi. If, after taking in Intle s temptations, you are contemplating booking consider this. You ve heard of, maybe dreamt of, staying at places that live up to their name. Intle is one of them. It has the wow factor, it is amazing and it is outstanding. It has to be, because that it what Intle means in Xhosa. And live up to its name it does. In spades. Game drives at Intle While Intle offers plenty of opportunities to explore the reserve on foot, morning, afternoon and sunset game drives are also available. We decided that this was as good a way as any to explore the reserve sit back and let someone else do the driving. And so we set off on a sunset drive, in the company of Jason Murray, who has been at the reserve since its inception. As stated, Intle does not have the Big Five which not only means that guests are free to explore on foot but also that the animals are at ease, facing no threat from predators. Straight away, we came across a herd of impala, which often frequent the area close to the lodge. And then zebra, nyala, kudu and blesbok, with several rare white animals included in the large herd. But the game drive virgin in the group was keen to see giraffe up close and no sooner than the wish was out of her mouth than Intle obliged. The four-strong herd greeted us as we rounded the corner. We watched them ambling around, taking in their graceful gait as they wandered off. While the experience was amazing, it was to be topped later in our two-day stay. Driving onto the reserve in our own car after a trip to nearby Jeffreys Bay, we were confronted by a roadblock only nature can conjure up. The two male giraffes were slap, bang in the middle of the road, refusing to move for some minutes, before grudgingly moving into the bush. Moving from that memory back to our game drive experience, we continued to traverse the expansive reserve in the company of the knowledgeable Jason, in search of new experiences, until we rounded the corner and set eyes on a great surprise. A carefully constructed deck overlooks the Gamtoos River and valley and is the perfect spot for sundowner snacks. Sipping on hot chocolate and sherry, we watched in awe as the sun began to set in front of us, while an almost full moon rose behind us. Need to know NOTE: Intle will be closed for the month of August. For more information: WEBSITE: http://www.intlegamelodge.com, phone Tracy at 082-436-8552 or e-mail info@intlegamelodge.com Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share