SAMA 23 will honour soprano Pretty Yende with the International Achiever Award Picture: Veli Nhlapo The star-studded Sama 23 show promises to be a spectacle, hosted by the larger-than-life Somizi Mhlongo and award-winning comedian Tumi Morake. The coming together of these two local powerhouses will set the Sun City Superbowl alight with fun, laughter and wisecracks, as the music industry honours its finest talent. Mhlongo is a much-loved theatre and television veteran, as well as a singer. He returns to the hosting duties that he so ably delivered on last year when he co-hosted with Thando Thabethe. Morake is the reigning queen of South African comedy, as well as a respected television host and a pioneer in her field. Recording Industry of South Africa CEO Nhlanhla Sibisi said: Our team is hard at work putting together a ceremony befitting the stature of the Samas. We have every faith in Somizi and Tumi that they will add that extra zing to the proceedings and leave us entertained. SAMA 23 will honour soprano Pretty Yende with the International Achiever Award, to recognise her strides on a global scale. Yende, from Piet Retief in Mpumalanga, is arguably South Africa s foremost voice in opera. She graduated from South African College of Music in Cape Town and took part in the prestigious young artist s programme at La Scala in Italy. What has followed is a remarkable career that saw her grace every stage imaginable throughout Europe and the Americas, and snapping some coveted awards along the way. Yende has also shared the stage with opera icons such as Andrea Bocelli and most sought after conductors. Her vocal abilities and repertoire put her in a league of opera greats. She released A Journey, her debut album last year. She recently had a great marathon run in the US where she had a season at the Metropolitan Opera House in Romeo et Juliette. Yende also made an appearance on the popular The Late Show with Stephen Colbert and the daytime Wendy Williams Show. Yende has rubbed shoulders with the likes of Oprah Winfrey and Whoopi Goldberg and was the covergirl of the influential Opera magazine and featured in Vogue magazine. Sibisi welcomed the news: For a long time we have seen the rise of Pretty Yende on international stages. She represents the voice of an ambitious go-getting generation. We salute her achievements and she is a worthy winner this year. Bravo. The main Sama 23 event on May 27 will be broadcast live on SABC1 at 8pm. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share