Nwabisa Meth on stage with Joyous Celebration Picture: Thulani Madonsela Eastern Cape gospel singer Nwabisa Meth is among many great vocalists to lead songs of praise when the popular Joyous Celebration choir visits Port Elizabeth this weekend. Joyous Celebration will perform at the NMMU Missionvale Campus tonight and tomorrow at 7pm as part of a national tour to promote their latest album, Heal Our Land. Meth, who was born and raised in Mthatha, Ngangelizwe and Northcrest, leads Ndifihle (Hide me) in the choir s latest album and will be performing the song to her home province crowd. [Ndifihle] is a song that starts with a cry about how godliness is ceasing to exist in our land. The chorus is about asking for protection from God and it ends with the proclamation that God is our hope, Meth said. The multi-talented vocalist, designer and make-up artist joined Joyous Celebration in 2013 during Joyous Celebration 17, which marked what she perceives as an insightful journey with many blessings unfolding along the way. She has since led a duet rendition of Siyakhothama with Nontsikelelo Shandu on Joyous Celebration 18 and Izulu Nomhlaba on Joyous Celebration 20. Working with Joyous Celebration has changed my life in that I ve had to consciously be more aware and more careful of what I do and say. Now, more than being an ordinary Christian woman, I ve been exposed to such a big platform with people possibly looking up to me, she said. I m beyond words with excitement that we are coming back because of [fans ] great support and how awesome it gets when we have them sing along with every song. Choirs in the Eastern Cape stand a chance to win one of Joyous Celebration s previous costumes by emailing their picture, where they re based and a short motivation of why they believe they are the deserving choir to info@joyous.co.za. Submissions from the Eastern Cape close on May 13. Tickets for the shows are between R200 and R300, on sale at Computicket and Shoprite/Checkers outlets. Readers Zaudi Attwell, Nyasha Mukotekwa, Usula Malosi, Andiswa Malgas and Patrick Gedze all won Joyous Celebration tickets and hampers in our competition on Tuesday. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share