Madibaz golfers are continuing to impress in national varsity circles, with four players named in the University Sport South Africa team to compete in the SA Challenge Cup next week. KPMG NMMU club members Kyle de Beer, Michael Maybery, Hando Brophy and Altin van der Merwe will join four of their peers to take on five other teams at the Atlantic Beach Golf Club in Cape Town from May 15 to 19. Set up to provide a chance for the country s young talent to gain exposure at a higher level, the USSA team will come up against the SA Junior and President s teams as well as defending champions Gauteng North, Western Province and Central Gauteng. Despite losing key player Luke Jerling to the professional ranks, NMMU club president Karl du Preez said the selection was a tremendous achievement for the university. He said players were called up based on their positions on the South African Golf Association s amateur Order of Merit and it was a sign of the healthy state of NMMU golf. The Madibaz proved their depth when they won the USSA tournament in Port Elizabeth last year and Du Preez said they had since bolstered their ranks with two promising players in Van der Merwe and De Beer. De Beer underlined his potential when he won the EP-Border Strokeplay title over three rounds at the Fish River Sun last month. Our partnership with KPMG has resulted in a very healthy and competitive golf team, Du Preez said. He said the student-athletes also tested themselves in internal order of merit events organised by NMMU and received points for attending practice and gym sessions. Madibaz Sport golf manager Melissa Awu said they were delighted with the selection of the quartet. We are really proud of the recognition our golfers have received, she said. It proves that we are, indeed, among the best in the country. The players have worked very hard and their selection for the USSA team is testament to that. On behalf of Madibaz Sport, I would like to say well done to the boys and the coach for keeping the NMMU flag flying high. The USSA team: Clayton Mansfield (Independent Institute of Education), Michael Maybery (Madibaz), Jason Broomhead (Independent Institute of Education), David Nortje (University of Pretoria), Altin van der Merwe (Madibaz), Kyle de Beer (Madibaz), Hando Brophy (Madibaz) and Andrew Plint (University of Pretoria). Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share