As scientists debunk a key myth about alcohol, Michael Hogan suggests 10 things you think you can do when you ve had a few but can t. Sorry, but there s no such thing as a happy drunk, according to new research published in that laugh-a-minute journal Clinical Psychological Science. While many people claim that drinking is to blame for the changes in their personality, these myth-debunking boffins have concluded that alcohol does not, in fact, radically change your personality. Instead, it merely brings out the real you, made more extrovert and louder. Frankly, this has come as a bit of a boozy blow. The idea that we turn into completely different people when we ve had one too many is what many of us rely on to get out of scrapes or to excuse any out-of-character, over-the-top behaviour. It wasn t me it was the Malbec/single malt/espresso martini (delete according to preferred poison). However, if this happy drunkenness is all in our heads, what about the other personality traits we think are true when tipsy? Here are the 10 other types of drunk we re convinced we become but are beginning to realise maybe we don t. Bah. Pass the wine. Political pundit drunk Let s change the subject shall we, darling? Many a dinner party has fallen victim to the tendency of wine-emboldened guests to become loudly opinionated about topical issues. It starts with small talk about local schools or property prices. Before you know it, everyone s holding court about Brexit, Trump, Theresa May s strong and stable shoes, Jeremy Corbyn s copious failings and all the ills of modern society. This phenomenon reaches its peak at 10.45pm Thursdays, aka White-wine Question Time . Cue a nation of squiffy armchair activists shouting at their television screens and venting on social media. Fluent linguist drunk Whether you re chatting up a waiter or bonding with locals on holiday, a few beverages convince you that you re fully conversant in any language. Your long-forgotten O-level French comes flooding back. Your extensive viewing of subtitled Nordic noir box sets means you re skilled in all Scandi tongues. Your pidgin Spanish or Italian, mainly gleaned from watching football or reading restaurant menus, is suddenly faultless. Combined with lots of gesturing and shrugging, what could possibly go wrong? Oops, you ve inadvertently insulted his family and, indeed, the entire nation. Are you Jeremy Clarkson? Gifted chef drunk Oh no, the dreaded drunken munchies have struck and all dietary bets are off. In your heady youth, you would have sated this sudden raging hunger with a McDonald s. Nowadays, though, you re a gourmet foodie. Literally nobody cooks as well as you. So you ll rebound around the kitchen, ransacking the fridge, peering into cupboards and sniffing suspiciously at potential ingredients, before whipping up something random that you re convinced is a revolutionary culinary invention. It usually involves cheese. And bread. And a bit more cheese. Sometimes hummus and olives. Possibly splashes of Worcestershire sauce. Always, but always, you will completely forget you have made this until you find the evidence splattered across the kitchen the next morning. Greatest dancer drunk Wedding discos and office parties are the natural habitats of this genre of drunk. Sure, you haven t thrown shapes or cut some rug since&#8230; well, since the phrases throwing shapes and cutting rug were acceptable. Yet that won t stop you storming the dancefloor. Muscle memory brings back the moves of your youth. You throw in the odd new flourish, copied off your fellow (also a bit tipsy) party animals. You re slightly off the beat, so can hear your own feet. You mouth along to the lyrics, despite only knowing the occasional word. Enjoy it while you can, twinkle toes, because achy legs, sore feet and flushed cheeks of shame await in the morning. Expert shopper drunk What could be more sensible than a tipsy online spending spree? Basking in the warm glow of the screen, drink to hand, you ll start by browsing your favourite sites: Asos, Yoox, Brand Alley, Net-A-Porter. The latter is soberingly expensive, so suddenly you re in the mood for a bargain. A quick click and you re cruising eBay, recklessly bidding on stuff you didn t know you needed. You nip onto iTunes to download a few tunes. Stop off at Amazon. Have a bulk-buying brainwave. Next morning, your inbox is full of regrettable receipts. They should fit breathalysers to laptops. Pro tip: steer clear of pets and holidays. Digital guru drunk And if you think breathalysers being fixed to laptops is a good idea, the same goes for smartphones and social networking sites. It might stop you tweeting that bon mot you think is hilarious but totally isn t and is also riddled with typos. It might prevent you posting that ill-advised rant on Facebook which you sheepishly delete the next morning. It might even halt your habit of manically liking friends old Instagram pics or unsubtly cyber-stalking people. Step away from LinkedIn until sober. Down-with-the-kids drunk A few drinks takes years off you, at least in your alcohol-addled imagination. Hence you ll outstay your welcome at post-work drinks when the office youngsters really want the old biffers to leave them to it. Sadly, getting a round in doesn t entitle you to bore them with your ancient anecdotes and cringe-making attempts to appear cool. See also: cornering your own teenagers, or friends student offspring, for slightly slurred chats about sex/drugs/rock n roll. Still got it, right? Wrong. Besides, your age will catch up with you during the next day s crippling middle-aged hangover. Nurse, more ibuprofen please. Sporting genius drunk The odd hellraising footballer aside, most professional athletes tend to steer clear of binge drinking for their body s sake. So it s ironic that it s when you re in your cups that you become most convinced of your sporting prowess. You re suddenly a pool hustler, a darts master, a table-tennis virtuoso, a tenpin bowler of style. You may also hear yourself enthusiastically agreeing to a run, bike ride, tennis match or round of golf with someone who s blatantly far better and fitter than you. Human satnav drunk There s a great little place down this dimly lit side street, they claim. I know the quickest way across town from here, they boast. You re going the wrong way, mate, they tell long-suffering taxi drivers, becoming increasingly insistent and argumentative. Naturally, you re soon totally lost and suddenly stone-cold sober. Sexy drunk Strange how we can spot this a mile away when it s somebody else making clumsily pickled advances, but never notice it in ourselves. Nope, we re just engaging in some subtle coquettishness (women) and sophisticated flirtation (men). We re not the squiffy sex pest here. Lord no. Not at all. Oh, hang on&#8230; The Daily Telegraph Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share