Cape St Francis Resort s Tricia Wood, left, and Anita Lennox at the Tourism Indaba 2017 at the Durban ICC Picture: NOMAZIMA NKOSI With the hope of attracting more international visitors to their businesses, a number of Eastern Cape resorts, hotels and game reserves attended the 2017 Tourism Indaba held at the Durban ICC earlier this week. From the Bay, the Port Elizabeth Hotel Group was one of hundreds of exhibitors intent on securing more international business. Group public relations and international sales manager Lin-Mare Reeves-Williams said the group had been exhibiting at Indaba since its inception, adding that two of its properties, Pumba Private Game Reserve and the Sands at St Francis, relied on international visitors. We get a lot of support so it s very necessary for us to be here to showcase our products, she said. Indaba is not a consumer show, it s the tour operators or the international buyers who come and look for products at Indaba and then they take it back to their companies. It s an opportunity for us to showcase what we ve got to the wholesale buyers, travel agents and tour operators overseas, Reeves-Williams said. Exhibiting for more than two decades, the Cape St Francis Resort represented by general manager Anita Lennox said they were at the Indaba to strengthen ties with our partners and hopefully find new partnerships . If the trade show didn t in some way have an impact on our business, we wouldn t be coming here, but over the years I ve seen more people end up here at the ICC and it s definitely a good show for us, Lennox said. Situated just 22km from Mthatha, Dan s Country Lodge was one of the 28 SMMEs brought along by the Eastern Cape Parks and Tourism Agency in a bid to showcase the province in a uniform fashion. Dan s Country Lodge events coordinator Unathi Nonkwelo said she was excited to be at Indaba because it s going to open us to a whole new market because most of our clients are from government departments . We want to advertise Dan s as much as we can but also learn and see how other establishments do things, Nonkwelo said. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share