Avuyile Mngxitama-Diko and Johnnie Isaac profile candidates in the running for provincial leadership It s all about service to the people, says Nqaba Bhanga Nqaba Bhanga Picture: Judy de Vega Having cut his political teeth in the ANC and later spending six years as a member of COPE, Nqaba Bhanga is having a go at the DA s Eastern Cape leadership a position he says he can use to strengthen the party and ultimately take over the province. Bhanga, a Port Elizabethborn politician who joined the DA in 2014, will be going headto-head against MPL and provincial chairwoman Veliswa Mvenya at this weekend s provincial congress. He needs the buy-in of the majority of the 450 delegates who will be voting for their preferred leader tomorrow. Bhanga, who has been criticised for being overly ambitious as a newbie of sorts in the DA, has fobbed off claims that he is after prestige. I was in parliament and I left because I believe in the values of the DA, he said. MPs are paid way better than councillors, so this was not about prestige or positions, but to serve the people. Known to be a friend of outgoing provincial leader Athol Trollip, Bhanga has also been labelled a proxy for Trollip by some in the party. But he takes it all in his stride, saying he is not ashamed to be associated with him. My friendship with Athol has grown to a level of brotherhood, he said. He is a mentor to me and he continues to guide me. I will continue to take advice from him. It was this close relationship and common understanding which led to Bhanga defecting from COPE to the DA in 2014. The Nelson Mandela Bay mayoral committee member described Trollip as a blessing in his political life. I met Athol Trollip after three years of being an MP and I was about to resign in parliament, he said. I wanted to go and pursue other interests. We started having conversations about the future of the people of the Eastern Cape and the prospects of us winning Nelson Mandela Bay that was in 2012. We had discussions about this over six months because it was difficult for me to join the DA. Trollip and I shared the same values and we agreed that people like me and him can work together. He has reassured DA members that there are no hard feelings between him and his opponent, Mvenya, although he believes they are in it for different reasons. After failing to convince her to agree to a managed process which would have seen Mvenya being given the leadership post unopposed in exchange for Andrew Whitfield to contest the chairmanship unopposed Bhanga decided to challenge her. When she refused to engage and accept that we must work together to build a stronger party, I decided she does not understand the bigger picture. Now if a person does not see the bigger picture, people who do must take over. To me it is about building a strong party, Bhanga said. Contesting leadership positions should not be about personal interests but the service to those who are exploited. What I was trying to communicate was that fighting for positions should not be the main issue; we should be preoccupied by building a DA that will take over governance from the ANC. Defending the predominantly male lineup in his team, the father of three said there was a need to strengthen the DA Women s Network to have a bigger pool of women to choose from for leadership positions. My approach is about developing people to be able to grow and be given responsibility on merit that they will be able to take the organisation forward, he said. Bhanga s preferred team includes Marshall von Buchenroder and Bobby Stevenson as deputy leaders, Andrew Whitfield as chairman and Yusuf Cassim, Samantha Jankovich and Chantall King as the three deputy chairpersons. &nbsp; Mvenya moved by passion for uplifting rural East Cape Veliswa Mvenya Picture: TimesLIVE DA Eastern Cape chairwoman Veliswa Mvenya believes she is on the cusp of making history by becoming the first African and woman to lead the party in the province from Saturday. A DA member for 17 years, she is vying for the job against Nelson Mandela Bay mayoral committee member Nqaba Bhanga in what is expected to be one of the biggest DA showdowns in the province. The successful candidate chosen at the provincial congress in East London, starting tomorrow, will replace Athol Trollip, who has held the title for the last 15 years. The leadership position is key as the person chosen to lead the official opposition in the province will have the momentous task of expanding the membership and voter base of the DA, particularly that of the elusive black vote. The DA hopes to rule the Eastern Cape as well as the country in 2019. Mvenya, who has been chairwoman since 2014, says she has what it takes to grow the membership of the DA in rural areas which are largely seen as traditional ANC strongholds. I have built a lot of trust with people from rural communities, she said. I can relate to them, to their issues and concerns. If I become provincial leader, I will strengthen relationships with DA activists in rural areas. If we can give them all the support they need, we can win the Eastern Cape in 2019. She said the party was growing in urban areas but more hard work was needed to sway the minds of rural people away from the ANC. Her passion for the rural Eastern Cape and its infrastructure problems was what motivated Mvenya to join the DA. Frustrated by the lack of municipal services, she decided it was time to join politics and chose the DA because it was virtually non-existent in the former Transkei during the late 1990s and 2000. The 48-year-old, mother of daughter Mivuyo, is believed to have played an instrumental role in growing the DA s membership in the former Transkei. I was frustrated that the further you left town there were no services; I couldn t just sit down and wait, she said. I made a decision to join the Democratic Party [now DA], but there were no DP offices close to where I was then [in Willowvale]. I had to call Telkom and ask for the contact details of the Democratic Party and I was put through to Trollip s office. After a phone conversation with Trollip, they met and that was the beginning of their working relationship. After that, I started mobilising for the DA in the former Transkei and I used to invite Trollip to come and address our gatherings, she said. In 2000, she became an Amathole District Municipality DA councillor and after the 2004 general election, she quit teaching and became a DA MPL. The leadership contest has caused rifts in the party particularly as Mvenya and Trollip butted heads last year but she said this was normal when the party went to congress. There was a fierce contest between Mmusi Maimane and Wilmot James and between Trollip and Lindiwe Mazibuko [for national leader and parliamentary leader, respectively], but after the election, we work together, she said. She denied she was antiTrollip, saying the party would never grow if people were not allowed to vie for positions. Contesting for power is about the DA, not Trollip. It shouldn t be about individual power but the party s growth. If people are not allowed to contest for leadership positions when one leader steps down, the DA wouldn t grow, she said. Her team vying for various leadership positions are Terrence Fritz and Lodewyk Gallant for the two deputy leader positions, Gustav Rautenbach for the provincial chairmanship and Celeste Barker, Kobus Botha and Desmond Petersen for the three deputy chairperson positions. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share