Goal-keeping veteran Moeneeb Josephs of Wits revs up his teammates. Picture: Gallo Images Bucs match crucial in title bid, says Josephs Tonight&#8217;s Absa Premiership match against Orlando Pirates will be the biggest game of the Bidvest Wits players lives says hugely experienced Moeneeb Josephs. Former Bafana Bafana goalkeeper Josephs a 2010 World Cup squad member and veteran of Pirates back-to-back treble-winning team of 2010-11 and 2011-12 said that if Wits kept calm and focused on their own task they could win the PSL in 2016-17. Wits excellent 1-0 win against African and defending PSL champions Mamelodi Sundowns at the Bidvest Stadium on Monday got the Clever Boys firmly back in the title race as league leaders. Josephs said staying there with a win against Pirates at the same venue tonight could be crucial. Asked about the influence Wits senior players and former league title winners such as Josephs his ex-Bucs teammate Daine Klate and Elias Pelembe could have at this crucial stage the keeper replied: What I do see is that it s the biggest game of our lives coming up. We have to go back to training and plan for Thursday [tonight]. We just have to remain calm. It s still anybody s game, but as long as we re focused on our game do what we have to do pick up the points that we need to pick up we stand a good chance, Joseph said. We re not depending on anybody. So the next game is the biggest of our lives. It s not easy coming up against the champions of Africa [Sundowns] and getting three points at such an important time. But you know what it s still a long road ahead. This was a very important three points but [tonight s] an even bigger game. With Orlando Pirates coming on a kind of a good run as well it s going to be another humdinger. But these are the kinds of games you want to be playing against the big teams. You know how South African football works. When you play the small teams you need extra motivation. But when you re playing Sundowns the Pirates it s a bit easier motivation-wise. But tactically it s better because you know their shape and that the coach can study that. But we know it s going to be a big game, he said. Pirates have lost one game in 11 under new coach Kjell Jonevret even if they have not looked particularly convincing. Wits are seeking their first league title in their 96-year history. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share