Port Elizabeth singer Amanda Faku became the first of the Bay s contestants to make it through to the live shows of the gruelling knock-out rounds on season two of The Voice SA. Along for the ride, Grahamstown musician Zikhona Gqamana, 23, also landed a spot in the live rounds on Parlotones frontman Kahn Morbee s team after beating Kirby Jo from Cape Town. Faku, 23, was the first member of Karen Zoid s team to make it onto the live rounds after Zoid paired her against Rick Jansen from Centurion both talent that Zoid stole from other teams during the battle rounds. Amanda chose to sing Nomvula by local artist Nathi, while Jansen opted for the fast-paced Love Runs Out by international pop rockers One Republic. Zoid gushed about Faku and said she was a soul sister, an earth mother who has the voice of a prophet. When you sing, it speaks to my soul . A thrilled Faku said she was excited about performing in the live rounds and added she was more excited about growing as a musician and performer. This is such a massive opportunity in the start of my singing career. I also feel lucky because Rick, who I went up against, is very talented. So to be chosen felt quite unreal, Faku said. Meanwhile, Grahamstown musician Gqamana says she s finally living her passion singing something she had to put on hold so she could focus on her studies and obtain a degree. Gqamana said her love of music was something that came naturally to her. I eat, breathe and live music . Gqamana, who was part of the first pairing of last week s episode, went up against Cape Town s Kirby Jo to sing New Brighton singer Zonke Dikana s smash hit Jik Izinto. Both artists were commended for their soulful voices but eventually coach Kahn chose to keep Gqamane. Kahn told both ladies that he would be looking for which one of them interpreted their song the best, and brought the most accomplished performance to the stage Gqamana said her experience on The Voice SA thus far had been amazing and she has learnt a lot about putting her voice first and focusing on the music. The exposure and support I ve received ever since viewers watched my blind audition , has been mind-blowing and motivated me to do better in each round so far, she said. I admire the fact that Kahn knows my strongest points in terms of singing and performing. However, at the same time he has taught me a lot about telling a story when I sing a song, Gqamana said. Catch The Voice SA tomorrow on Channel 101 at 5:30pm or watch the repeat on Monday at 6pm on Channel 115. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share