Bishop Tim Omotoso, of the Jesus Dominion International ministry, is frog-marched by members of the Tactical Response Team to the Hawks&#8217; Port Elizabeth headquarters to be charged with human trafficking Picture: IVOR MARKMAN Human trafficking accused pastor Timothy Omotoso was still in the process of relieving himself when a heavily armed policeman surprised him by jumping over the wall and into his bathroom stall at the Port Elizabeth International Airport last month. The televangelist, 53, now wants the state to foot the bill for an urgent high court application brought by his lawyers directly after his dramatic arrest last month. In seeking the costs order, the Nigerian pastor, who is accused of various sex crimes, described exactly what happened inside the bathroom when he was arrested by an army of Hawks officers. Meanwhile, lawyers for the police, who deny Omotoso s place of detention was ever concealed from his legal team, have detailed a very different version of events. In an affidavit before the Port Elizabeth High Court, Captain Brenda Magwangqana of the human trafficking task team said at no stage had a request heen made by Omotoso s lawyers to consult with him after his arrest on April 20. While advocate Albert Beyleveld SC, for the minister of police, has submitted that each party carry their own costs, Omotoso says he is entitled to a costs order, especially in light of the humiliating way in which he was arrested. Upon arrival at the airport, I headed to the restrooms to relieve myself. I was not aware of any police presence, Omotoso, the leader of the Jesus Dominion International church, said in an affidavit. I heard a loud gunshot outside. I then heard people screaming and shouting outside the restrooms. He said he had become fearful and decided to stay inside the bathroom stall. I heard people enter the bathroom and male voices shouting where is the pastor? Then someone began kicking against the stall door. I was still in the process of relieving myself, so I put one hand on the door to prevent someone from bursting in. For the full story read The Herald, or get the complete newspaper, including comics, classifieds, crosswords and back editions in our e-Edition. &nbsp; Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share