TOP THREE: SPAR 10km Women s Challenge winner Kesa Molotsane, centre, is flanked by Mapaseka Makhanya (third), left, and Irvette van Zyl (second) Picture: EUGENE COETZEE Kesa Molotsane sped to an impressive maiden victory in the 10km SPAR Women s Challenge, but there were winners galore as thousands braved the cool conditions in Port Elizabeth at the weekend. The Bloemfontein-based KPMG runner was delighted with her victory on Saturday and said she knew that they could not let Nedbank s Irvette van Zyl, who hails from Pretoria, open up too big a gap when she led the pack at the halfway mark. Irvette was flying, so I felt we had to do something before it was too late, the new champion said, admitting she had nearly miscalculated her pace in the closing stages. I thought we were closer to the finish when I passed Irvette at the 8km mark. I opened up then, but suddenly realised we still had two kilometres to go, not just one, so I almost shot myself in the foot. But I managed to hang on and I am pleased with the way it worked out, Molotsane said. She won in 33:13, followed just eight seconds later by Van Zyl. Mapaseka Makhanya, from Olifantsfontein in Gauteng, was third in 33:40. Spurred on by local artist Gino Fabbri, thousands of women took to the start of the 10km and 5km events, in what is the Eastern Cape s biggest road race. Among them was South African road-running legend Sonja Laxton, who finished a remarkable 91st Women s Challenge. The 68-year-old from Melrose in Johannesburg showed she has lost none of her competitive edge when she completed the 10km race in just under 50 minutes. Van Zyl said: These races are really important for women s running in South Africa and they have made us all better competitors. I can see the times are much faster this year and the runners are much hungrier. Kesa is an example of the new blood coming through, and there are a lot of juniors on the horizon. SPAR Eastern Cape marketing director Abri Swart said the Women s Challenge was in line with their philosophy to provide healthy family lifestyle options. It is a chance for some healthy exercise and for some, perhaps, to move out of their comfort zone. Next year, the SPAR Women s Challenge will celebrate its 25th anniversary in Port Elizabeth, and Swart said they were aiming to put on a firstclass event. We will throw in all the bells and whistles, even the kitchen sink, he said. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share