The voices of the choir s female line-up blend with the male voices South Africa s much-loved national choir, Joyous Celebration, will be performing in Port Elizabeth this weekend, presenting a concert of traditional spirituals and gospel favourites on Friday and Saturday night at the NMMU Missionvale campus. And five readers of The Herald will win hampers which include: Double tickets to one of the two shows; MTN Joyous Celebration bag, T-shirt, CD and DVD. The successful launch and release of the 21st Joyous album and Easter celebrations means the MTN Joyous Celebration annual SA tour has begun and its first stop after leaving Gauteng is Nelson Mandela Bay. The internationally-acclaimed gospel ensemble will bring spiritual upliftment to the Eastern Cape following a successful three-day run of its Heal Our Land album in Gauteng over the Easter weekend. Having uplifted the spirits of thousands of our fans in Carnival City, Johannesburg, we are sure that Bay audiences will be just as captivated, says founder Pastor Jabu Hlongwane. The Eastern Cape s Nwabisa Meth will, among others, take to the stage. Meth is one of the many singers nurtured by MTN Joyous Celebration over the years. This year our tour is about collectively calling for our land to be healed, Hlongwane said. As we celebrate our 21st anniversary Port Elizabeth can be assured of the most phenomenal show. We are excited to be returning to our Eastern Cape family, back at NMMU Missionvale. We also want people to know that due to building alterations there is no longer parking available at the venue. We have made arrangements for secure parking at the Dan Qeqe Stadium which is less than 600m away with park and ride facilities available, Hlongwane said. Co-founder Lindelani Mkhize urged fans to come out to support the gospel group. We are always humbled by the response we receive from our communities, and we will continue to give them the best we have. To be in line to win one of the five hampers, send an SMS to the number 41893 with the word JOYOUS followed by your name and surname. SMSes cost R1.50 per 160 characters. Free minutes do not apply and errors are billed. Entries close at noon tomorrow and the winners will be notified after this. TMG staff and their families are not permitted to enter. Tickets for the Port Elizabeth shows are between R200 and R300 and are on sale at Computicket and Shoprite/Checkers outlets nationwide. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share