Come one, come all Nelson Mandela Bay residents and #FillOurStadium. This was the appeal made by the Southern Kings rugby team on Wednesday at the Donkin Reserve in Port Elizabeth. A red flag with the words fill our stadium on it was raised at the city s well known landmark to invite rugby fans to attend this weekend s game to support the Kings when they face the Sharks in their next home game on May 13. After beating the Waratahs and Melbourne Rebels in their previous games, the Kings are looking to make it a hat-trick of Super Rugby wins when they play the Durban outfit. The team, coach Deon Davids as well as mayor Athol Trollip, among others, watched as the red and white flag slowly rose to the top of the flagpole. A buoyant Davids said support from the city would genuinely encourage the players. I think this is a fantastic initiative, it means so much to the players, he said. This is also a way for the players to play at their best and to say thank you for all the love and support we have had up until now. We are going to try our best to score a home win on Saturday we haven t done that this year and I think its going to be much easier if we have a full stadium. The boys have worked really hard to get here, things are starting to gel a bit more and we are hoping to keep that momentum and hope that things will get better from here on, Davids said. Trollip encouraged the metro to fill all 45 000 seats . This weekend is a big game for us and we want to fill the stadium. We want to encourage every single person who supports rugby to come out there, he said. If we have people in that stadium every time there is a big match, whether its Chippa United or the Southern Kings or for a concert we are creating an economy at that stadium and once we create and economy at the stadium, everybody around that prescient will benefit and we as a city will benefit. #FillOurStadium say the Southern Kings rugby players. Pictures @deneeshapillay pic.twitter.com/w2UzRfyZ75 HeraldLIVE (@HeraldPE) May 10, 2017 Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share