NMMU have won the bid to host the sixth University Sport South Africa (USSA) sevens tournament later this year Picture: Supplied In a major coup for women s rugby at NMMU, the Port Elizabeth varsity have been named hosts of the sixth University Sport South Africa (USSA) Sevens tournament in September. The decision was made after former NMMU rugby manager Melissa Awu put in a bid to the national body last year for the varsity to stage this year s event. Awu, who is also the development officer for USSA Rugby, felt it was a milestone for women s rugby at the university and she was looking forward to managing the project on behalf of the Madibaz. We re paving the way for a something that has not been done, she said, referring to the fact that the event would be hosted largely by women. NMMU have hosted the men s tournament in the past, but now it is time to give space to the women to grow the sport of rugby. Awu, who joined the university in 2015 when women s rugby was in its infancy, said the tournament would assist with the development of the code. Although there were plans to take the tournament back to KwaZulu-Natal, where it was hosted in the past, the Madibaz were able to meet all the requirements set out by the executive of USSA Rugby. Tournament director Richard Janse van Rensburg said applicants had to present their bid a year in advance, followed by a site tour to ensure that the facilities were up to standard. Awu said the news was an opportunity for the women rugby players and the greater NMMU student body. Our students have so much potential and we wanted to provide them with an opportunity to explore talents they might not have thought they had. The event will open doors for student leadership and also give them a platform to grow their skills. She said five students were involved in the organising committee and that through opportunities such as these they hoped to empower them to become leaders. Last year s Sevens event, held at the Tshwane University of Technology, was a steep learning curve for the Madibaz after they finished in the lower half of the log. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share