Lindokuhle Manyisa modelled a design by Ayabulela Mzananda Picture: Mark West Nondumiso Majola modelled a design by Bulali Ngesi Picture: Mark West Zipporah Mbenge modelled a design by Esihle Mangqishi Picture: Mark West Khanya Mjoli modelled a design by Habi Doucour e Picture: Mark West Sinawo Malangeni modelled a design by Hannah Maybery Picture: Mark West Zukiswa Mtshumsila modelled a design by Naso Nguza Picture: Mark West Amanda Gqoli modelled a design by Lerato Lepheana Picture: Mark West Yonwaba Mbelwana modelled a design by Qhamani Matroos Picture: Mark West Zethu Ndevu modelled a design by Samantha Cunningham Picture: Mark West Aphiwe Fini modelled a design by Shelby Horn Picture: Mark West Naomi Mbangi modelled a design by Sibulele Qodashe Picture: Mark West Siphokazi Nncapayi modelled a design by Tayla Futcher Picture: Mark West The Out of Africa creations by second-year students blew away national designer Paledi Segapo, who was visiting Fairview Racecourse in Port Elizabeth this weekend as a celebrity fashion judge. A dozen NMMU students were tasked with designing garments for the East Cape Derby on Saturday, May 13, to an Out of Africa brief that incorporated a coffee blend by Bay roastery Mastertons. It is spectacular in the sense that these are second-year students and so many of them had impeccable workmanship, and they capitalised on minimalist silhouettes, said Segapo, the founder of Palse Homme a South African menswear label which is a regular on catwalks in Africa and Europe. I m completely blown away, this is fashion talent to watch out for! he said, particularly as this was the first time many students had ever made any sort of garment. Winning student Habi Doucour , from Mali, took the top prize of R10000 towards her study fees. Taking it back to my roots, my outfit is inspired by the people of Mali and the traditional richness that still lives there, said Doucour of the long cream dress in a fabric called Bogolan, which she noted was unique to her country. She accessorised her garment with a wrap headpiece that included a coffee bowl. Bogolan is made by placing hand-spun cotton in fermented mud, dyeing it with a chosen colour and then hand- painting on a specific design, Doucour said. The cowrie shells on the sleeves and neck are a symbol of protection and good luck in the Malian culture. Shelby Horn took second place for her Tsitsikamma Mountain Blend inspired mini-skater dress, which Segapo praised for its workmanship. Hannah Maybery took third spot for her dress overlaid with a capelet. Segapo was one of three judges at the race day, with Bruce Cadle of the NMMU School of Music, Art and Design and Gillian McAinsh, My HeraldLIVE editor at The Herald. As well as the fashion show, students also showed t-shirts on the day and there were several other fun activities such as food trucks, a jumping castle and a children s play area for families as well as seasoned race-goers to enjoy. &nbsp; &nbsp; Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share