Thamsanqa Sangweni Picture: SowetanLIVE Chippa United coach confident of retaining PSL status in final game Chippa United coach Dan Malesela says a couple of beers at night, when necessary, have helped him rest easy ahead of the club s most important and final game of the season tomorrow. Asked if he was having sleepless nights ahead of the Free State Stars game in Bethlehem, Malesela said: I sleep. If I have a problem with sleeping, I take two beers and sleep. His team need a single point to survive a relegation playoff, but a relaxed Malesela said re a c h i n g 30 points with a victory tomorrow would be a good way to end the season. Chippa are 13th on the log with 27 points from 29 games. They are level on points with Stars, but the Chilli Boys have a better goal difference. Both sides are just a point away from relegation threatened Highlands Park, who are positioned 15th on the log and are two points ahead of last-placed Baroka FC. Although Malesela said earlier this week they had two options in a win or a draw, it appears he is reluctant to share the points and will go in for the kill. It s not only about winning the game, it s about getting 30 points that s important us, he said. We are obviously glad we have both options. We will get chances in the game because Free State Stars have to open up and play a more offensive game. The commitment still stands that we need to save this club [and] keep it in the PSL. I am very confident that Chippa will remain in the league. He said last Saturday s Nedbank Cup semifinal penalty shootout loss against SuperSport United was an example of what his troops were capable of. We are taking that as an advantage for ourselves to say if we can put up a fight like that in a cup match, why not in a very big league match. I think also the fact that we played the Nedbank helps us [and] gives us a bit of an edge. Free State Stars did not play last weekend. We played, so we have a bit of game time behind us. Malesela said he was forced to make a couple of changes to the starting lineup which put up a brave fight against SuperSport due to injuries. He said he was happy to welcome back team captain Thamsanqa Sangweni. Meanwhile, four of the six matches on PSL Super Saturday tomorrow will have a dedicated channel. SuperSport 3 and 4 will give updates and live c ro s s &#8211; ings to the other matches. Kaizer Chiefs v Wits at the FNB Stadium in Johannesburg will be on SS4; Golden Arrows v Orlando Pirates at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban is scheduled for channel 198; Ajax Cape Town v Baroka FC at the Cape Town Stadium will be on SS9; Highlands Park v Mamelodi Sundowns in Johannesburg will be on SS3; and There will be live crossovers for updates and goals for the games between Free State Stars and Chippa United and Polokwane v Cape Town on SABC and SuperSpor t. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share