Weekend Post&#8217;s Vine Time columnist Samantha Venter lets wine lovers in the Bay know what&#8217;s happening and where The Tramways Building will host the I Love PE Wine Show The Bay s own homegrown I Love PE Wine Show is back next weekend on Friday and Saturday, May 12 to 14, with the theme Go Smart or Go Home that means dress up a bit to suit the show s stylish new home at The Tramways (but go easy on the perfume and after-shave or you and your fellow tasters won t be able to smell the wine!). The organisers moved the show to the heart of the city after the trek to last year s country-style venue proved a bit much for some local wine-lovers who are used to their 10-minute city. That was the only drawback of an otherwise really successful event a stylish showcase of niche, boutique and lesser-known or new wine producers, and limited ticket sales per session so the venue wasn t so overcrowded that you couldn t stop for a chat with a winemaker. The same formula applies this year your ticket buys you access to one of three sessions on Friday afternoon, Saturday afternoon or Saturday evening, and the focus remains on smaller wineries and hand-crafted wines. The venue is cleared and refreshed after each session, so there s none of that feeling of arriving half-way through an event and all the good stuff is gone already. Speaking of the good stuff, wine lovers will be spoilt for choice amongst the more than 30 wineries aton the show, many of which will be represented by the winemakers themselves. Some are household names such as Boschendal, Klein Constantia, Ernie Els and Blaauwklippen, but where it gets really interesting is with wineries like the French-themed Marianne, Spice Route s wines from the Swartland, off-the-beaten track Baleia (don t miss their Chardonnay), and the organic wines of Org de Rac. Do not miss out on Cederberg for an interesting comparison of cool-climate wines from the mountains of the Cederberg, the coast of Elim and the hills of Chile. As for the stylish wines of Waterford, if you re offered a sample of Kevin Arnold Shiraz or The Jem, do not turn it down. Peter Falke may be a name more familiar to sock aficionados than wine-lovers, but his wines are pretty good too. From the cool-climate Elgin Vintners and Paul Cluver, to Stellenbosch super-star Thelema, to Darling s Ormonde and Gabrielskloof from Bot River, there is a whole lot of the winelands to explore in the heart of PE next weekend. Foodies won t go hungry Flava, Mella s and Two Olives will be there, along with new catering and events outfit My Friend &amp; Co, run by Ananja Bouwer ex-Colonial Kitchen. The show takes place on Friday May 12 from 6-10pm, and Saturday May 13 from 12-4pm, or 6-10pm. Tickets are R150 per session from Computicket, or R175 at the door. No under-18s. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share