LATEST DEVELOPMENT: LexisNexis head of production Peter Raine, left, chief executive Billy Last and LexisNexis South Africa director Terrance Naidoo at the company s new Tech Hub in Humerail Picture: BRIAN WITBOOI Standard of skills available a factor as software giant opens new office Signalling the importance of Nelson Mandela Bay as South Africa s emerging technological hub, global content and technology solutions multinational company LexisNexis launched its new premises in Port Elizabeth yesterday. The company essentially provides software and other services to the legal sector, with municipal and property-related services among its leading products. The South African division of the leading global software giant has established a new operation overlooking the Port Elizabeth harbour to tap into the province s burgeoning computer science and information technology graduate base. Describing the Bay as a fast-rising software development city, the company said yesterday that the main purpose of the new office was to serve as a software development centre, primarily for its GhostWriter product. LexisNexis head of production Peter Raine said establishing the office in Humerail followed LexisNexis s acquisition of software company Korbitec in November 2015. What was largely a Korbitec sales operation in Port Elizabeth has now been expanded significantly to include a strong focus on software development, he said. This is in line with one of LexisNexis s core values of innovation, which sees us strive to deliver tomorrow s software solutions today, in line with advances in technology. Raine said the office had a team of 17 staff but was poised for growth in the future through extension of its software development team. For the past 11 years, our main recruitment channels have been [NMMU and Rhodes University], he said. As an employer of choice, we find it exciting that talent is being nurtured and grown here in the Eastern Cape, and that graduates are making a huge difference to the economy and intellectual capital of the region. Raine said LexisNexis South Africa saw the Bay as an attractive prospect because of its pipeline of graduates, and an splendid coastal lifestyle. In setting up shop in Port Elizabeth, the company joins a growing number of multinational corporates investing millions in the city. LexisNexis South Africa is constantly on the lookout for software solutions that will enhance the way the nation does business in a rapidly changing landscape, providing endless opportunities for young talent to apply their minds, Raine said. We are proud to be able to add to the opportunities available to young people in this area to make an impact on the Eastern Cape, South Africa and beyond. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share