First of all, I don t condone the way these cattle were shot, but remember there are two sides to a penny. Let the court decide what the verdict is and take it from there not toyi-toyi, damage and burn private and state property. This is the same as what is happening in Coligny, where houses, businesses etc are being plundered, destroyed and burnt to the ground. This is not what a democracy is about, or are these individuals who are allegedly being bused in to the area to cause mayhem and destruction doing so in the so-called name of justice? Yes, sadly and tragically a young teenage boy died. Here again, let the court decide and find what the true story is. These two tragedies are receiving front-page coverage, electronic and extensive social media coverage. What is happening here is pure and blatant hooliganism and thuggery. My main concern here is that farmers, their families and staff are being murdered I would go so far as saying slaughtered and hacked to pieces. I have photographic evidence of farmers who have been shot several times, a young farmer s wife whose arms and legs were tied to a four-poster bed and a large crucifix that was hanging above her bed was smashed down her throat, and she was left to die an agonising death. There is a farmer who was shot and skinned and left to die. The young children were not spared and were butchered as well. My point is that these atrocities are not given front-page coverage or social coverage or even electronic coverage. It is usually given third-rate coverage as though these cattle are more of a loss than these brave farmers who do a sterling job of making sure we all, black and white, have food on our tables. I would go so far as saying our farmers have a more dangerous job than the police force. I salute our farmers, black and white. I am appealing to all news media, electronic, print and social, please give these farm murders the wide coverage they deserve. These farm murders there are hundreds of them can be found on the internet under Farm murders in South Africa . Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share