Two multimillion-rand contracts that were meant to save the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality millions of rands through debt collection and reducing electricity losses have not yielded satisfactory results. The three-year contract with Amat Security and Cleaning Services, the company hired to cut electricity theft drastically, has come to an end. According to the latest figures, electricity losses have increased instead of going down. In the past two financial years, 12.29% and 12.68% of electricity was lost to theft and technical issues. Between July last year and March this year, that figure had jumped to 13.84%. Municipal officials said it was difficult to determine if the losses had increased because Amat had not made inroads, or if more people were connecting electricity illegally, effectively swallowing up any savings the company might have made. In a report to the budget and treasury committee on Friday, officials said: It is clear that the current strategies and the use of a service provider have not delivered the required results to materially reduce electricity losses and to reduce the purchase costs. The municipality is, however, looking into the possibility of amending and extending Amat s contract to the end of November, to integrate electricity meters installed recently by the company with the municipality s power system. Amat said as far as it was concerned, the contract was a new initiative to curb losses. With new initiatives there are always unintended consequences, Dr Ncedo Mkondweni said on behalf of Amat. He said administrative constraints and internal procedures hampered the company s ability to reduce electricity losses on a big scale. We could not work outside of a valid contract. Once the contract was amended, Amat would be ready to roll out on a big scale . Meanwhile, EOH Mthombo hired more than a year ago to verify accounts and collect bills more than four months overdue is not collecting as much money as the metro had hoped. At Friday s meeting, municipal officials said while EOH claimed it had collected R52-million, the figure included money collected by the municipality s own debt collection staff. The municipality is disputing the amount and must still iron out who collected what. Acting chief financial officer Barbara de Scande said the municipality was not happy with EOH s revenue collection progress and was considering reviewing its contract. Portfolio committee chairman councillor Retief Odendaal said: If the project was bearing the fruit, no one would be worried. But it is not. We must ask ourselves if they are debt collectors. Was this a wise decision considering we have our own debt collection division? DA councillor Leander Kruger questioned if the municipality was getting value for money from the EOH contract. It is important that the wording of contracts is watertight. Agreements are not properly drafted, Kruger said. ANC councillor Rory Riordan said teething problems with contracts were to be expected. EOH said yesterday that it was committed to delivering great value to its customers. Using our tried and tested technology, human capital and delivery methodologies, we deliver quality service in line with contractual commitments, it said. This is also the case in terms of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality and this specific engagement. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share