From left, Emma Albertyn, Leslie Speyers, Sian-Beth Hitchner and Mariska Knoetze Picture: CHRIS GERTSCH A glamorous, glitzy journey through the great Broadway musicals kicks off at the Pemads Little Theatre in Central next week, with director and creator Leslie Speyers now just adding the finishing touches to the eagerly awaited production. His entertaining new production, Iconic Broadway, opens on Wednesday and will run until Sunday May 21. Speyers is no stranger to the stage, having performed from the age of nine and building up an impressive CV both as award-winning actor and director over many years. He said the idea for this revue was one he d sat on for years, but that there was never any time to create it until the right moment finally availed itself. I ve had this idea for a very long time. I wanted to do a show that was truly cabaret. It s a passion of mine and I felt like there was no time like the present, Speyers said. I ve done similar productions but they were smaller versions and this is the first time I ve gone all out, he said. From the ballads to the big numbers and everything in-between, Iconic Broadway promises two hours of top-drawer entertainment suitable for all ages. It s billed as a sparkling production with some of the favourite and best-known Broadway numbers that have stood the test of time, presented by highly rated Port Elizabeth performers such as Marelize Booyens, Kelly Mucka and, of course, Speyers himself. Adding their formidable dance talents into the mix will be Sian-Beth Hitchner, Emma Albertyn and Mariska Knoetze. After his wife, Judy, died four years ago, Speyers took a break from the stage. He began immersing himself in theatre again last year first as King Alonso of Naples in The Tempest in March last year and then by taking on the critically acclaimed role of the Dame in the Pemads pantomime Puss in Boots at the end of last year. After my wife died, I took a step back to gather myself. But I knew I d find my home again once I returned to theatre and performing, Speyers said. The father of two said he was already a semi-professional actor from the age of 15 and was encouraged by his parents to follow his passion. It was his mother who got him to take up the piano as an instrument. As a child I was self-conscious but I loved the opera and musicals, and my parents encouraged this side of me. Many performers are actually quite shy but when they get up on stage and put on a show they become other people they re acting, he said. My mother was musical and because I was, my boys also grew up with an interest in music. One of my sons ended up being a professional viola player, he said. Speyers is well known for his sense of style and even made the costumes for Iconic Broadway himself. With a total of 10 performers to grace the stage, Speyers said he developed the programme around the performers. I feel like Port Elizabeth needs this an authentic cabaret show where they can just come and relax. It s an evening of enjoyment and I want people to say when they leave, Gee, that wasn t enough instead of feeling like the show went on longer than it should ve, he said. Catch Iconic Broadway at the Little Theatre in Belmont Terrace at 7.30pm. There will also be 2.30pm matinee performances on May 13, 14 and 21. Tickets at R80 each are at Computicket. Tickets may also be bought at the Little Theatre box office 30 minutes before each performance. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share