The World Sports Betting East Cape Derby will be held at the Fairview Racecourse on Saturday NMMU fashion design students will be adding a touch of coffee flair to the World Sports Betting East Cape Derby to be run at the Fairview Racecourse on Saturday, May 13. The event, a classic stake race for its three-year-old horses, is the first Saturday Derby Day in years and has a strong emphasis on fashion. The dress code is Dress to Impress Out of Africa . NMMU s fashion and textile department hosts a fashion show during the derby day, with garments designed by second-year students. This year, Mastertons Coffee has taken the theme and each student has been briefed to create a garment around the overall theme of Out of Africa , which is a Mastertons coffee blend. Each student has based their design on a specific blend, and all designs must incorporate an African feel. We are excited to be partnering with Fairview Racecourse and NMMU for what promises to be a fun filled day of unique experiences, while also highlighting the potential and need for local businesses, institutions and talent to work together to showcase what makes the Eastern Cape great! , Mastertons coffee director Ryler Masterton says. To add more to the day, Fairview Racecourse promotions manager Karin Le Roux has lined up live acts, lucky draws and give-aways, a kiddie s entertainment area and food trucks. National fashion designer Paledi Segapo, who is based in Johannesburg, will be a guest judge for the fashion show. The hospitality suite at the HB Christian Room is offering a buffet lunch with Masterton s barista, and cheese and wine after the final race. There will be musical entertainment, race cards and a cash bar. The cost for the HB Christian Room is R350 per person and booking is essential. In addition, there will be a MixLab Triple B Festival where the public can enjoy burgers, beer and bourbon. There will be an over 18s chill-out zone with entertainment in the Triple B Festival Area. Pre-sold tickets are R50 and they will cost R80 at the door. Booking for the Triple B Festival area is via Ricardo.Doopie@gmail.com, 076-762-2176. Entry to the course is free and gates open at 11am with the full programme of nine races starting at noon. Further information, and booking for the HB Christian Room, from Karin le Roux, karinl@pumelela.com, (041) 372-1859, or 076-480-3739. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share