The PE Opera House will honour Marlene Pieterse and Nomhle Nkonyeni She currently plays the queen mother on Mzansi Magic s Igazi and now Port Elizabeth actress Nomhle Nkonyeni has landed another role this time on e.tv s Scandal!. Though she would not reveal any details about her upcoming role on the soapie, Nkonyeni confirmed she had started filming her scenes and would be playing a recurring role. The veteran actress and playwright is perhaps best known for her controversial leading roles in protest theatre of the late 1970s and 80s. She made headlines and gained fame for her strong leading characters depicting the bitterness of love across the colour line, the Immorality Act, 10pm curfews and fears of being arrested for not having the dreaded pass . Nkoyeni along with Stage World Theatre School owner Marlene Pieterse will be honoured for their contribution to the stage by the Port Elizabeth Opera House. Opera House general manager said the two have contributed immensely to performing arts in Nelson Mandela Bay . Ngonyama said the Opera House would be running three plays written and directed by Nkonyeni which would include Truck Driver, Umqa ka Ntsika and You be a Leader My Son. Because the Opera House is all about social cohesion we re planning on to commissioning a local artist to create a beautiful piece in honour of these two remarkable women. Just like the Athol Fugard, Winston Ntshona and John Kani stained glass window it ll also be in black and white, Ngonyama said. Pieterse s Stage World Theatre School is described as a training institution for the creative and committed, and provides pupils with a nurturing learning environment that will help them achieve their full potential in their chosen field. Ngonyama said that they were in the process of re-launching Stage World and were working with graphic designers to come up with the new image. The Opera House is planning on supporting Stage World through an annual production we ll be collaborating on. We decided to work with Marlene because she was already working with kids and already has that experience, Ngonyama said. He said that Nkonyeni s production of Truck Drivers would be staged a week before heading off to the National Arts Festival in Grahamstown in July. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share