Ntombozuko Dinga strikes a pose at the Talk of the Town at the Athenaeum Picture: Nomazima Nkosi Hello my darling nunus, it s me again your favourite gossip girl is here to bring you all the highlights and shenanigans of the past week. Last Thursday I attended the staging of In These Streets with Port Elizabeth performer Wezile Mgibe at the Tramways building. The play depicts several characters that have lived through social ills faced by society every day. May I confess that the highlight of the evening for me was the goodie bag at the end? Who doesn t love some free drinks, and that s exactly what was in the bag. Each guest got to go home with half a six-pack, which did make everyone more than happy. The rainy weather kept me home for much of the weekend though I did make sure I attended the annual SPAR Women s Challenge in Summerstrand early on Saturday. On Saturday night your Skinnerbek traded clubbing for a night in the presence of the Lord. The Joyous Celebration 21 concert was held at the NMMU Missionvale Campus and while the performances were great overall, I am still a little upset that my ultimate crush, Sibusiso SbuNoah Mthembu, did not perform. Wouldn t it have been great to worship with the potential bae? Anyway, the disappointment was made up for in other departments like the yummy buffet and drinks in the VIP lounge. I was surprised though to overhear some people asking for alcoholic drinks. Seriously, I know we like our drinks, but there is a place and time for everything. Imagine having alcohol at a gospel concert, although some did wonder whether Puleng March had some down her throat when she fell on stage. My minion on the other side of town attended Bay FM presenter Nqabisa Grootboom s Talk of the Town session at the Athenaeum, which started more than fashionably late. This went well beyond African time as it was supposed to start at 4pm, but only got going around 7pm. What I can say about the do is that every single lady there came to slay. The women all dressed to the nines Port Elizabeth has some truly beautiful Nubian queens indeed. Nqabisa looked like royalty in her emerald velvet off-the-shoulder dress, while Bay TV make-up artist Amanda Nyoka was absolutely flawless. Fashion designer Asanda Mali also looked gorgeous. Former SABC1 news reader Grootboom, the guest speaker, was gracious enough to take pictures with everyone who asked. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share