SAA is to review its seatbelt extension policy following an incident in which a passenger was humiliated when the aircraft had to &#8216;return to ramp Picture: iStock South African Airways (SAA) is to review its seatbelt extension procedures after one passenger s humiliation when an aircraft had to return to ramp because it had failed to provide her with one. When Pretoria-based Kabelo Seitei a frequent flyer boarded a flight in Cape Town last August she asked the cabin controller for a seatbelt extension and was told one would be brought to her. When that hadn t happened by the time the aircraft started to taxi to the runway she alerted the cabin attendant and the aircraft turned back. It is a requirement of the South African Civil Aviation Authority that every passenger be secured for take-off and landing. After a half-hour wait an attendant clutching a bright orange extension strode down the aisle stopping at row 28 to fasten it around Seitei. And then came an announcement which Seitei an English moderator with the national education department remembered as: We are dealing with some obese cases on board and therefore had to go back to find extension belts. We don t usually need them on this flight out of Cape Town The airline s customer care department failed to investigate Seitei s e-mailed complaint at the time and she got no response when she re-sent that e-mail in January. Responding to TimesLIVE s query last week SAA s head of media relations Tlali Tlali said the airline s policy was to have two seatbelt extensions on board narrow-bodied aircraft such as the Airbus in question and five on wide-bodied aircraft. Prior to aircraft doors closing should the crew identify that additional extension seat belts are required for the flight they can be requested he said. The two extensions on board that flight were given to other passengers but there was oversight on the crew s part with respect to Seitei s request Tlali said. Her experience called for a review of SAA s pre-departure procedures to improve overall travel experience and the efficiencies of our operations Tlali said. Asked if the airline would consider asking passengers to indicate when making a booking whether they required a seatbelt extension he said: We are looking at the viability of different options to ensure required compliance levels. Your suggestion is but one option. Given that South Africa has one of the highest obesity rates in the world TimesLIVE asked other airlines how they cater for passengers who don t fit into standard seatbelts whether they had ever not had enough to meet the demand on a flight and whether they would consider asking passengers to indicate when making a booking if they required a seatbelt extension. Here is how they responded: Comair (BA &amp; Kulula): Each aircraft carries 10 extension seat belts. Yes we have run out. When this happens we note the passenger s seat number and notify the ramp controller who arranges for more extension belts to be brought to the aircraft. This is all done behind the scenes and before the aircraft doors close to avoid any embarrassment on the customer s behalf. We don t ask customers to declare their need for an extension belt when booking as this would be discriminating to them. Natashia Schoeman Comair Customer Relations FlySafair: We keep five extensions and 20 infant loops on each aircraft and the latter can be adapted for use as extensions. We ve never had to use them all. If we did see the demand for these extensions increase we would probably stock more on board before asking on the website as people are sometimes a little shy about these things or perhaps aren t sure if the standard belt will get around them. Kirby Gordon head of sales and distribution Mango: Our on-board standard equipment includes more than enough seat extension belts in every aircraft. We have never had a problem in providing the extenders because we didn t have enough. Pumla Luhabe GM Commercial. TMG Digital/TimesLIVE Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share