Some of the junior cast members strut their stuff in Annie Get Your Gun Picture: Simone Jeffrey Photography Fancy a rootin tootin -shootin kinda time? Then take a trip to the Wild West by catching Annie Get Your Gun at the Savoy Theatre. Directed by theatre stalwart Rose Cowpar, this show brings together much local talent to get the hips swaying and capture the imagination. First brought to the stage in 1946 by Joshua Logan, Annie Get Your Gun, with lyrics and music by Irving Berlin, is the true story of sharp-shooter Annie Oakley. Hell-bent on proving she is the best shot in the world, Annie enters a one-on-one challenge with Frank Butler of Buffalo Bill s Wild West Show while the touring group visits Cincinnati, Ohio. Cleverly choreographed by Bennie Gerber, the G &amp; S Society s take on Annie Get Your Gun is energetic and fun. Tara-Jane Stern as Annie is brilliant and brings the character to life in her portrayal of the tomboy hoodlum who cannot read or write, but has a knack for shooting. With a skilful western accent and belting out memorable numbers, such as You Can t Get a Man with a Gun, Stern is captivating and engaging. Thuba Myeki as Frank Butler keeps the pace going and holds true to character. Put the pair together and hear how they render Anything You Can Do and you will be hooked. Caitlin Smith as Dolly Tate has excellent stage presence and an edge few local stage actors have. Charl Vollgraaff as Buffalo Bill, Jacques Batista as Charlie Davenport and Dennis Slattery as Chief Sitting Bull will have you in stitches, while Abigail Ranwell as Dolly s younger sister, Winnie must be commended for her memorable voice and presence. Let us not forget Annie s family brood Georgia-Jo Palmer as Minnie, Brookly Plaatjies as Jessie, Tathan Kersten as Nellie and Joshua Louw as Little Jack, who all do their characters justice. The show was well received on its opening night and deserves congratulations for the effort put in. In the end, Annie gets her gun and her man, and that is all that really matters. Catch Annie Get Your Gun at the Savoy Theatre until June 10. Shows are at 7.30pm each night with 2pm matinees this Saturday and next, June 10. Tickets are R100 at Computicket. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share