Vuyokazi Mangali from King William&#8217;s Town and Arthur Tlhalatsi from Port Elizabeth Two Eastern Cape hair stylists are in line to win the much coveted Sofn Free HairXperts Masters Challenge airing tonight (and every Tuesday) on e-TV. Arthur Tlhalatsi, from Arthur s Hair Salon in Central, and Vuyokazi Mangali, from Victory Hair Salon in King William s Town, made the top 18 after a nationwide search, which resulted in two contestants chosen to represent each province. With R250 000 on the line, as well as the title of the Ultimate HairXperts Master, there is a lot at stake for the two Eastern Cape finalists. Mahikeng-born Tlhalatsi, who moved to Port Elizabeth in 2000, said winning the competition would be a dream come true and the ultimate validation after competing against fellow talented stylists. I ve always wanted to enter the competition but I didn t have all the information and last year, with encouragement from my brother who won a different hair competition in 2010, I entered the regionals and won second place, Tlhalatsi said. With two salons one in Parliament Street and the other on the corner of Russell Road and Lawrence Street, Tlhalatsi said he specialised in S-curls, English Cut and relaxing. He does not do braids. On the other side of the province, Mangali, from Dimbaza, said she started working as a hairdresser in 2009 and then developed a passion for it and decided to rent a workstation at a local salon. Entering the Sofn Free competition has been an exciting time and a great learning experience for me. It has reassured me of my ability to deal with different hairstyles and I am now more confident and comfortable with thinking out-of-the-box and exploring different styles, Mangali said. The competition kicked off with a Pre Style-Offs workshop led by the Sofn Free creative team, which consisted of hairstyling heavyweights in the industry the likes of Isaac Letele and Xoli Ntshingila giving the regional stylists vital basics to keep in mind. This advice included tips such as how to properly drape a client with a towel, and to always be prepared for what a client wants. With just 10 remaining contestants to go until the July 18 final showdown, during each episode, one or of more participants are eliminated from the competition. The eliminated contestants will still stand a chance to claim the Viewers Choice award, which will see the contestant with the most votes as decided by the public, walking away with a R30 000 grand prize. To vote for Tlhalatsi dial *120*44222*6# and to vote for Mangali dial *120*44222*5. The Sofn Free HairXperts Masters Challenge competition airs every Tuesday between 6.30pm and 8pm on e-TV. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share