The 2017 Mr PE UberMANn finalists are, back, from left, Sean Vianello, Xolile Stefane, Lafras Taljaard, Matthew Lombard, Jean Pierre Malgas, Joshua Minnie, Jon Paul Raper, front, Amandla Didiza, Tristan Ericcson, Mr PE 2016 Nik Affat, Patric Brown and Msimelelo Menze. Absent: Zeno Adams Picture: Gillian McAinsh Hold on to your hats, ladies and try not to drool too much as the winner of the Sun Boardwalk Mr PE UberMANn 2017 will be announced on June 3 at a gala evening taking place at the Boardwalk International Convention Centre. With a different title to go with this year s competition the 16th year of Mr Port Elizabeth UberMANn pageant director Heinrich Schmidt said the new name gave an indication of the type of Mr Port Elizabeth one could be expecting. The new title means man of action . It can be physical action or extending yourself to others in terms of support. We re also making the event itself more physical by adding various activities for the finalists to participate in. Schmidt, owner of Heinz in Style men s and women s wear, said the organisers were looking for a young, charming personality, a role model for young people and a great ambassador for Port Elizabeth . Aged between 20 and 30, the 12 Mr PE UberMANn finalists have been trained on how to speak in public, how to handle peer pressure and are all-rounder men . There are not a lot of role models and when I started Mr PE, I saw the gap and saw the amazing potential in of these young men, Schmidt said. Over the past 15 years, the contests have made a mark which means the criteria is working. It has given them building blocks for the future, apply it to their personal lives and it s our way of investing in the youth. Outgoing Mr PE Nicholas Affat hailed the promotion as life-changing and said entering was one of the best choices he had ever made. It s helped me become the man I am now and it s a wonderful experience for any guy. It s actually more than just a pageant as it teaches one life skills and how to become a respectful young man. One of the added bonuses is meeting new people and being in a position to help the causes close to your heart, Affat said. The Khayalethu Boys Home is this year s beneficiary and Cansa PE, the Association of the Physically Disabled, as well as the Victim Friendly Centre in Mount Road, will benefit from fundraising events organised by the Mr PE brand. Tickets are available from the finalists at R140 each. For more information on the Sun Boardwalk Mr PE UberMANn, e-mail: uber@ubermann.co.za Comedian Roland Gaspar is the MC tonight at the Sun Boardwalk Mr PE UberMann meet and greet and the Boardwalk ICC. Next to him are the 12 finalists who are hoping the grab the title #ubermann2017 #sharethebay #mrpe A post shared by My Herald Live (@myheraldlive) on May 17, 2017 at 10:17am PDT Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share