ALL LEVEL: Baroka FC s Matome Kgoetyane and Mamelodi Sundowns Percy Tau during their Absa Premiership clash at Loftus Versfeld last night Picture: GALLO IMAGES Hold on tight, because the compelling nature of this Absa Premiership title run-in promises a spectacle of thrills and spills, with no one having a clue how it is going to end. Baroka FC s injury time penalty from the boot of Richard Matloga deep into referee s injury time saw the relegation-threatened Limpopo side pull off a stunning 2-2 draw with Mamelodi Sundowns at the Lucas Moripe Stadium last night. Before the penalty that penalised Sundowns defender Thepelo Morena for handling in the box, the Brazilians were leading 2-1 and on top of the log with 57 points, having overtaken Bidvest Wits, who lost 3-1 to Free State Stars in Bethlehem last night. Wits now lead Sundowns by two points, with the two championship-chasing sides going into the last two matches of the season. And based on the evidence of what happened last night, it promises to be thrilling. The advantage is firmly with Wits, who need to win their remaining matches against Polokwane City at home and Kaizer Chiefs away on the final day of the season to be crowned champions. For Pitso Mosimane and his men to regain the championship, they must also win their remaining matches against Maritzburg United and Highlands Park, while at the same time hoping that Wits drop points. For Baroka, they remain second from the bottom on the log with 24 points and their survival mission remains a mountain to climb in their last three matches against Golden Arrows, Highlands Park and Ajax Cape Town. It has been made difficult by Free State Stars s unexpected victory over Wits, which has moved them four points from bottom side Highlands Park. Wits were tardy and committed numerous basic errors, also having Sifiso Myeni sent off in the 79th minute, conceding goals for Stars by Makhehlene Makhaula (24th minute), Mohammed Anas (65th) and Sinethemba Jantjie (90). Cuthbert Malajila pulled one back for Wits in the 76th. Other results: Bloem Celtic and Orlando Pirates drew 0-0, Maritzburg United and Platinum Stars also played to a 0-0 stalemate. Additional reporting by Marc Strydom Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share