His fired-up team are ready to tame the Brumbies and make it four Super Rugby wins on the bounce at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Saturday, says Southern Kings hard man Irne Herbst. The giant lock was one of the stars when the Kings beat the Sharks to register a historic first win over South African opposition on Saturday. Ahead of their epic victory, the Kings had chalked up stunning wins over the Waratahs and the Melbourne Rebels. Herbst was at the centre of a physical showdown against the Sharks, and he is predicting another titanic showdown against an aggressive Australian outfit. Asked if the Kings could now make it four wins in a row, Herbst said: We are not going to settle for just losing it. I think the Brumbies are like the Sharks. They maul and scrum well and, hopefully, we can target them in that area. Herbst said the Kings had been keen to make a strong statement of intent from the opening whistle against the Sharks. So from the first minute, we were physical, and I think it reaped the rewards. We can just build from this now, he said. This weekend s clash is another big game, and we are starting all over again and focusing on the Brumbies now. The Sharks game is over. Hopefully, we can just get another good result. Herbst said the 22000 crowd who watched the Sharks game had inspired the Kings. When I ran out onto the field, I got lots of goose bumps all over. It was amazing and one of my best rugby memories that I will keep. Hopefully, the people will come out and support us again this weekend. For us, it is a massive honour to play in front of a big crowd. Fighting it through for the win in the 78th minute with the try in the corner that showed great character from the guys. Herbst said the Kings three-match tour of Australia helped the team to gel. It is an amazing brotherhood that we have. In the past couple of weeks, we have really got together, he said. Even the guys that are not playing have a major impact on our training sessions. The Kings supporters can expect some more wins. The Kings have beaten two Australian sides now and we know that in our heads that we can beat them [the Brumbies]. But it will be a big task because they are a good side with a good history and we have respect for them. Herbst said captain Lionel Cronje had played a major part in the revival of the Kings. I spoke to my dad this weekend and I told him I thought Lionel was the best leader I had worked with in my life. I have worked with a couple of good leaders. There is just a calmness that Lionel gives you on and off the field. It is how he speaks to all the players and he is a great leader. I think he can become a Bok soon if the people believe in him, Herbst said. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share