Leandie du Randt Two of South Africa s starlets come together at The Boardwalk Amphitheatre to entertain and inspire on Saturday May 27. Actress, author and motivational speaker Leandie du Randt will share her thoughts on being comfortable in your own skin and loving yourself, inspired by her book Gemaklik In Jou Eie Lyf while popular songstress Irene-Louise van Wyk does the honours of entertaining the audience with beautiful songs from her debut album Meer as Woorde which was released in May last year. The pair earned rave reviews from audiences across the country during the collaborative nationwide #NoOneCanBeatYouAtBeingYou tour. Between May and August last year, they made 60 appearances at venues countrywide. Now it s Port Elizabeth s turn to be inspired. Guests are promised an uplifting evening of superlative entertainment by two of South Africa s darlings. Du Randt will share powerful messages of hope and inspiration during her interactive and engaging talk, which will be preceded by a spectacular performance by Van Wyk, The Boardwalk PR and promotions manager Siphokazi Ngombane says. Du Randt, who has a BComm degree in industrial psychology, published her book in 2014 and has been motivating readers and audiences ever since. South Africans will also recognise her for her appearances in Getroud Met Rugby, Moeggeploeg, Strictly Come Dancing and Vlug na Egipte. She is perhaps best known for her role as Ivanka Gouws in Binnelanders. Van Wyk, the daughter of Louis van Wyk (artist, manager and owner of Music Profile Management) and the late Irene van Wyk (a singer who mesmerised audiences for years), is the complete package. She is beautiful, talented and has a magnificent voice. At the beginning of last year her song, Jy Speel n Game Met My, peaked and stayed at number one on several radio charts, played on almost all local radio frequencies and had listeners hooked. Don t miss these exceptionally talented young women both stars in their own right at The Boardwalk later this month. Tickets are R120 at Computicket and the show starts at 7.30pm. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share