OUT MY WAY: Grey captain Bevan Prinsloo hands off Paul Roos s Colia Louis on his way to scoring his team s first try Picture: EUGENE COETZEE Home team shows sensational fighting spirit in eclipsing Paul Roos Gym 22-20 Grey High produced a sensational fightback in the last quarter of the match, scoring 14 points in that period to snatch a thrilling 22-20 schools rugby victory over the fancied Paul Roos Gymnasium side in Port Elizabeth on Saturday. Trailing 20-8 with 12 minutes left, the match looked set for the third win in a row for the Stellenbosch outfit before the home team upped the intensity of their attacks to cross for two tries. Flyhalf LJ du Preez held his nerve in a pressure situation to kick two excellent conversions to secure the victory. Centre Waqar Solaan signalled the Grey comeback in the 58th minute when he beat the Paul Roos cover defence after a chip ahead to seize the ball from under their noses, closing the gap to 20-15. A crucial penalty 10 minutes later put Grey back on the attack with a lineout close to the Paul Roos tryline and after a series of concerted attacks were stopped, substitute Kholiwe Konza darted through to wriggle his way over, levelling the score at 20-20. After Du Preez s successful kick made it 22-20, Grey had 90 seconds to hold on to the ball, which they did for a remarkable comeback win. Early in the first half, Grey captain and No 8 Bevan Prinsloo showed his power and speed when he found space on the angle to score in the righthand corner. Paul Roos, however, took a 10-5 lead at half time with tries by wing Regan van der Westhuizen and centre Rufus Dercksen. In the second half, Du Preez slotted a penalty to narrow the lead to two points before Grey were twice guilty of innocuous clearance kicks from their 22-metre line, one of them presenting the visitors with a try by wing Remy Engelbrecht. Fullback Colia Louis added the conversion, as well as a penalty, for what looked like a telling lead before Grey finally found the urgency and accuracy they had been seeking to pull off a memorable result. &nbsp; Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share