Supersport United striker Bradley Grobler says winning the Nedbank Cup would be a great sendoff for coach Stuart Baxter, who has now filled the Bafana Bafana coach position. The 29-year-old player also said the trophy could be a great end-of-the-season reward for the players. Matsatsantsa play Chippa United for the second time this week in the Nedbank semifinal at the Sisa Dukashe Stadium today. The coach has done an extremely good job with the team and I think he deserves it, Grobler said. After their 3-0 loss to the Chilli Boys on Wednesday night, the former Platinum Stars and Ajax Cape Town player said today s match would be completely different from the mid -week game. I think they might make a few changes and we might also make a few changes, Grobler said. It s going to be a good game, especially after Wednesday night s performance. It s not easy to say, but I think we might be even be going in as the underdogs. This game is huge. We ve had a long season, but this game can make it a very good season for us. If it goes the other way then it will just become a very long season. With the break coming up it would be nice to have the final to look forward to. Meanwhile, the Chilli Boys will be out to double their winnings against the Pretoria side. But, most importantly, Chippa will be out to continue with their impressive run in the Nedbank Cup this year. Winning the trophy would also be a great end to a rough league season for the Port Elizabeth based side. Facing a fight for survival in the PSL, coach Dan Malesela has set his sights on the cup. If I said I did not want this team to go to the finals I d be lying, the coach said after their win against United. We are going to take this game as seriously as possible. I know we will be facing a totally different team today, but for me sometimes personnel really don t matter. It s how we express ourselves on the day and handle ourselves that count. Wednesday s victory was only the Chilli Boys second win this year, and Malesela s first match back at the helm after Chippa had put him on special leave. Malesela s presence seemed to have made an impression on the players, as they fought tooth and nail for the win. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share