Greenshields Park Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Greenshields Park Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Greenshields Park Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Greenshields Park Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Greenshields Park Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Greenshields Park Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Greenshields Park Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Well-known Bay couple Gareth and Ulagh Williams, who own music production company TwoTone Music, have been living in Greenshields Park with their young daughter since last year, and couldn t be happier. We moved to Greenshields Park in September last year, after living in Park Drive for years. It s perfectly located for us centrally situated, close to our daughter s preschool, and my parents also live down the road, says Ulagh. The pair, whose company specialises in corporate entertainment and music direction, are also lecturers in the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University Department of Music. Ulagh Williams lives in Greenshields Park Picture: Fredlin Adriaan They moved from Park Drive after they bought a home in a Greenshields Park complex. We ve had our eye on this townhouse complex for years, and then last year, when the home s long-term owner decided to sell, we jumped right in and made her an offer, says Ulagh. Having lived in an apartment for several years, the couple were attracted to the beautiful garden and quiet neighbourhood. We ve started to renovate little bits here and there, and it already feels like our home. The old wooden ceilings and lovely landscaped garden, the work of the previous owner, were definitely big drawcards, adds Ulagh. That and the lovely tall, old trees surrounding our yard you can sit outside and listen to the birds, and not even realise you re so close to Main Road. The tranquillity is a big plus for the couple who are always either busy with their daughter, their company or lecturing. Ulagh and Gareth also give back to the community through music development and outreach programmes. Because of their busy lifestyles, they needed a centrally located home. Situated next to Main Road, Walmer, Greenshields Park is within walking distance of shopping centres such as Walmer Park and Moffett on Main Lifestyle Centre yet another drawcard for Ulagh and Gareth. Our street is very quiet and literally around the corner from Walmer Park. People walk their dogs and walk with baby strollers, and we ve always felt quite safe, says Ulagh. I love living here because I m less than a minute away from the shops. My folks literally live down the road and I can work in beautiful, quiet surroundings at home in the mornings. ULAGH S FAVOURITE THINGS ABOUT THE AREA: Her beautiful garden Shopping centres within walking distance The great coffee shops and cafes in Main Road and the Walmer avenues SCHOOLS NEARBY: Theodor Herzl Schools (pre-primary, primary and high school) DF Malherbe High School Walmer West Primary School DINE OUT NEARBY: Golden Coast Taiwanese Restaurant in Heugh Road Bocadillos Bakery and Cafe in Sixth Avenue Simply Asia at the Moffett on Main Lifestyle Centre Mugg and Bean at the Walmer Park Shopping Centre Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share