Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan The Sardinia Bay parkrun starts at the Grass Roof every Saturday at 8am Picture: Gillian McAinsh Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Best known for its scenic sea views and country atmosphere, the laid-back suburb of Lovemore Park is on the greener side of Port Elizabeth. The suburb, which is along the road to Seaview, is made up of many different types properties ranging from sleek, modern homes to charming country-style estates. Some Lovemore Park residents who live on larger properties and smallholdings even keep their own livestock and horses. Resident Leigh Edgar, who has lived in the area with her family for nearly seven years, says they ve seen quite a bit of development take place. When we first moved here the suburb was not developed in terms of houses. Now there are many more freestanding homes and townhouse complexes. A big drawcard for her family was the fact that they could make all the decisions about their house. We bought in a new townhouse complex so we could decide what our house would look like, she says. It s a modern home and we got to choose all the finishings and make it just the way we wanted it. Leigh says the area is very peaceful and away from the noise of traffic. Another drawcard is the fact that, though much of Lovemore Park exemplifies country living at its best, everything you need is surprisingly close by. Lovemore Park is a 20-minute drive from the city centre, the airport, Walmer Park Shopping Centre and Greenacres Shopping Centre. Popular beaches like Kings Beach, Pollock and Hobie are also not too far away, though many people in the area tend to head to nearby Sardinia Bay and Seaview for seaside sojourns. Lovemore Park is a particular delight for residents and visitors, as this part of the coastline is renowned for sightings of whales between July and December; dolphin pods can also be seen year round. It s a pretty and peaceful area that more and more South Africans are choosing call home. Property prices The median asking price in Lovemore Park for a typical property such as a four-bedroom house is R3-million. If you are renting, expect to pay around R20,000 for a three-bedroom house. Dine out nearby Apron Strings: for delicious breakfasts in a beautiful setting Grass Roof Farm Stall and Coffee Shop: for freshly baked delights The Old Cash Store: for a comfy and tasty family dinner Barnacles Restaurant: for great seafood Things to do nearby Visit the Seaview Predator Park. Spend the day at Sardinia Bay. Feed and pet the animals at Holmeleigh Farmyard. Visit the Kragga Kamma Game Park. Take part in the Saturday morning parkrun at the Grass Roof. Little Known Facts It s close to several popular function venues such as The Plantation, La Cigale Exclusive Country Estate, Champagne Events, Hamilton s and Manas. Historically, the area was mostly made up of farms and smallholdings. Most of the newer homes and townhouse complexes are concentrated in one area of Lovemore Park. The area is still developing, with plots for sale and new complexes going up every year. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share