GOOD HAUL: Quinton de Kock at the CSA Awards ceremony held in Johannesburg at the weekend Picture: GALLO IMAGES Quinton star of the show at CSA honours ceremony Wicketkeeper-batsman Quinton de Kock was the star of the show as he cleaned up at a glittering Cricket South Africa (CSA) awards function at Kyalami on the Track in Johannesburg on Saturday, while there was also cheer for Border umpire Shaun George and the Warriors Colin Ackermann. De Kock sealed five awards on the night, including the coveted Cricketer of the Year Award, while George and Ackermann were the only other winners to claim multiple awards on the night. For respected umpire George it was another amazing awards ceremony as he picked up the Umpires Umpire of the Year as well as the Umpire of the Year awards. It was his second umpire of the year win, and the fourth time that his fellow peers had voted him in as the umpires umpire of the year. It is a really special moment, I really treasure the Umpires Umpire of the Year award especially, as being recognised by your peers is fantastic, but I am really happy with both, George said. It is always a goal for me to be one of the top umpires every year, but it takes a lot of hard work and sacrifice. It is special for a so-called small region like Border to be recognised on the national stage. I am proud to be from Border and I believe we will continue to produce top-class players, officials and umpires for many years to come. Warriors star allrounder Ackermann won the Domestic Players Player of the Season and the Saca (South African Cricket Association) Most Valuable Player award after a fantastic campaign across all three formats of the game. Ackermann was unfortunately not able to collect his awards in person as he is playing cricket in England. Former Border, Warriors and Proteas star Mark Boucher also picked up a major honour as he was named the Coach of the Year. This after guiding the Titans to the domestic double of Momentum OneDay Cup and CSA T20 Challenge titles, while also finishing as runner-up in the Sunfoil Series, during his maiden season as coach. Boucher was up against stiff competition in Warriors coach Malibongwe Maketa, who led his team to two finals, both lost against the Titans, and Knights coach Nicky Boje as his team won the Sunfoil Series trophy. The Women s Cricketer of the Year category saw Sune Luus claim the award ahead of Border star bowler Ayabonga Khaka and Proteas women s captain Dane van Niekerk I didn t expect to win the award, the competition was really tough and I was so excited, so I am thrilled to have won, she said. I have always been a team player, so I think that without them I wouldn t be standing where I am today. This one is for all of them. Other Eastern Cape players who just missed out on awards included Warriors captain Jon Jon Smuts, bowler Andrew Birch and EP bowler Solo Nqweni. Smuts was nominated in the Momentum One-Day Cup Cricketer of the Season category, won by the Titans Henry Davids. Both Smuts and Birch were in the CSA T20 Challenge Player of the Season, won by the Titans Farhaan Behardien, while Nqweni lost out on the Africa T20 Cup Player of the Tournament award to Northern Cape s Patrick Kruger. CSA president Chris Nenzani, former president of Border Cricket, gave a stirring opening at the start of the evening. Various individuals will be celebrated tonight for their contributions to the game of cricket, Nenzani said. The players in particular have entertained us. We have been amazed by their talent, dazzled by their skills. Those who win awards [tonight] truly deserve the accolades bestowed on them and the nation celebrates with you all. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share