Police found Michael van der Watt&#8217;s bicycle while searching the Van Stadens River gorge Picture: Fredlin Adriaan The desperate family of missing Port Elizabeth policeman and cyclist Mike van der Watt believes God is taking care of the 34-yearold, whose bicycle was found in a secluded area just off the R102 yesterday. Scores of police vehicles, a police helicopter, members of the K9 unit and the diving squad were deployed for a third day, this time to comb the Van Stadens River Gorge. At about 10.30am, members of a foot patrol found Van der Watt s canary yellow Trek bicycle without a scratch on it and with a fitted water bottle abandoned a short distance from a gravel path. Shortly after the discovery, Van der Watt s brother, Willem, 40, said he was unsure what to think as he had not yet been able to confirm the bicycle was definitely his sibling s. However, police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the bike was Van der Watt s. Willem, who was with his parents at the time, said: We believe God is looking after my brother. He said the family was doing all right under the circumstances . Van der Watt, the father of a 16-month-old boy, left his Rowallan Park home at about 6am on Monday on a cycle and was expected home at about 9am. Michael van der Watt has been missing since Monday morning Picture: Facebook He left his cellphone and wallet at home, taking only his state firearm with him. Yesterday s search was called off shortly after lunchtime due to heavy rain. The bicycle was loaded onto a silver-grey Isuzu bakkie and taken away by forensic investigators. Naidu said they had been alerted to the abandoned bicycle between 10am and 11am yesterday, when a search party found it. Willem said the massive searches for Van der Watt were marvellous . When we went out [on earlier searches], his colleagues were there, the farm community, PE horses and dogs it just shows how PE is. He said Van der Watt s wife, Unity, was coping under the circumstances. Her father is a priest. We all believe in God. Unity declined to comment and her mother who did not identify herself took the phone out of her hand. She said: When we have closure, you can come here and we will talk. Now is not the right time. Naidu said the search for Van der Watt, who turns 35 on Monday, would continue today. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share