Malcolm Jaer on his way to score while Yu Tamura attempts to stop him during their Vodacom SupeRugby game against the Sunwolves at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium Picture: BRIAN WITBOOI Zippy back division star Malcolm Jaer is ready to take his place in the Southern Kings team to face the Lions at Ellis Park on Sunday. Jaer has been out of action since injuring his knee against the Western Force last month and is itching to get back on the field. I should be ready. I am in my third week of rehab and all is feeling good, Jaer said after a training session. I did not feel any pain at training and now it is up to the coach to pick me for the weekend game. I feel ready. I don t know what the coach will do, but I will take it is as it comes To be honest, after my fifth week on the sidelines I was feeling a bit negative and my knee was not really sorted out. But the longer it went on the more positive I got. Before I was injured I was confident and in good form. It is a mental thing, and if you get your head right then I should be right from the start when I come back, he said. Jaer, who has become a firm favourite with Kings fans thanks to his explosive runs and fearless tackling, said he was excited about the looming Lions showdown. The Lions are one of the best teams to test yourself against, he said. It will be a big South African derby and it is the right time for me to come back and to make my mark. We are all looking to prove something after what happened against the Brumbies last week. We want to play attractive running rugby against the Lions like they do against other teams. Jaer said there was strong competition for places in the Kings team and that it was a healthy environment to be in. There is Masixole Banda, Chrysander Botha, Alshaun Bock, Makazole Mapimpi and Wandile Mjekevu. It forces us to strive for something better and it makes you a better person. Look at Bock. He did not get a chance and then he got it and won a man-of-the-match award against the Sharks, Jaer said. When asked about his options for the Lions clash, Kings head coach Deon Davids said: Malcolm Jaer is back from injury and is looking really good, and he is someone to look at. The injury to Jaer gave an opportunity to fullback Banda to return to the starting side on the Australian tour. However, Banda missed the Kings match against the Brumbies after sustaining a hamstring strain in the game against the Sharks. The Kings medical staff said they were happy with the progress being made by Banda. The Kings will name their team tomorrow. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share