What roads are closed and where you can cross in safety Note the following road restrictions: Marine Drive between 6th and 9th Ave, from 6am to 10am. Marine Drive between 9th Ave and Admiralty Way, from 6.45am to 8.45am. Brighton Drive between 10th Ave and Admiralty Way, from 6.45am to 7.30am. Admiraly Way between Marine Drive and Erasmus Drive, from 6.45am to 8.45am. Erasmus Drive between Admirality Way and Cardiff Street, from 7.45 to 9am. 7th Ave between Sheringham Street and Marine Drive, from 7.45 to 9am. Controlled cross-over points at: Brighton Dr, crossing Admiralty Way, into Admiralty Crescent. Tibury Crescent, crossing Admiralty Way, into Admiralty Crescent. Skegness Rd and Brighton Dr, crossing 7th Ave. Use caution on these roads: Admiralty Way from Erasmus Dr to Strandfontein Rd: 10km runners will face oncoming traffic. Strandfontein Rd: 10km runners will face oncoming traffic. La Roche Dr: 10km runners will face oncoming traffic. Marine Dr, from La Roche Dr to 8th Ave: 10km runners will face oncoming traffic. Cardiff St, Keiskama St, Kuruman Kloof Rd and Sheringham St: watch out for 5km runners. The gates at NMMU South Campus to Marine Dr will be open for traffic going to Marine Dr. First time entrants &#8211; here is what you need to know Do I have to be fit to take part? Not really, as you may take your time and walk either the 5km or 10km races. The cut off time for the 10km is two hours and for the 5km, one hour. Check with your doctor if you have concerns. Where do I park? See the map on this page for parking. This map also shows where to find toilets, the first aid station and food and drink stalls. What time should I get there? The 10km race starts at 7am and the 5km race at 8am. Try to get there at least 30 minutes before to get to the start in time. What can I win? All finishers receive a medal, the first 13 000 receive a T-shirt and there are lucky draws and entertainment at the prize-giving at 9.30am (after the run cut-off). Is there a charity benefit? Yes, always: this year race proceeds will go to the Association for the Physically Disabled and Missionvale Care Centre. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share