Janine Ah Shene at the Kitibella launch Picture: Zamandulo Malonde Hello darlings, it s me again your favourite gossip girl s here to bring you all that is juicy and scandalous once more. You know those weeks that just seem to take far too long to end and you discover it s only Wednesday? Yup, last week was mine. So I thought, why not swing by the Tramways Building for the Kitibella online shoe shop launch and drool over some envy-inducing shoes while sipping on a glass of wine, or two, or three? That turned out pretty well as Robertson s Winery sure knows how to sponsor an event. I spotted the ever-so-stylish Sonja Tifloen and by now you should know she never disappoints when it comes to fashion. It was quite a lively event, with a pretty good attendance. I guess Bay fashionistas mean business when it comes to their shoe game. Bubbly Niqui Cloete-Barass did a super job as MC. Last Saturday night I went to my favourite tshisanyama spot, Kwano s Meat Corner, where Metro FM DJ Malwela was on the decks at the Denim Jackets and Sneakers Party. By the way, who broke the couches at Kwano s Meat Corner? Where am I going to sit now #findtheculprit! Malwela was playing just the right music and people were in their feelings thinking they were the next Babes Wodumo. DJ Malwela was kind enough to take some snaps with some thirsty looking ladies. If you follow him on Instagram you will know exactly what I m talking about. Meanwhile, on the other side of KwaNobuhle, Lhu s Place was filled to the brim with people who weren t willing to fork out R50 to watch the Metro FM DJ. Skinners overheard some cute ladies saying that, between the four of them, this was the equivalent of a bottle of Sky and there was no way they were paying to get in. On the other side of Uitenhage, at the VW People s Pavillion, local favourite Patrick Lindoor, better known as Tururu, had crowds singing along to his tunes as he performed at The Family and Friends Picnic Day at the Pavillion sports field. The event was organised by Lindoor and, from the way things went, it won t be the last one held there. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share