Metro police briefed on new legislation although fine schedules not finalised The new ban on transporting schoolchildren on the back of bakkies for profit will come into effect today, although details around how motorists will be penalised still need to be fine-tuned. Regulation 250 of the National Road Traffic Act states that no person will be permitted to transport children in the goods compartment of a vehicle for profit. While provincial police spokeswoman Captain Michelle Raats said it was the first time she had heard about the new regulation when contacted by a reporter, Nelson Mandela Bay metro police have been fully briefed. Bay safety and security political head John Best confirmed that all metro police officers were aware of the new regulation. This has been a long time coming [and] will be enforced, he said. Implementing the new regulation would be done in the same way as enforcing other road regulations through roadblocks and spot checks. Although pre-defined fine schedules are still to be determined, Best said he would be meeting with various stakeholders, including metro police chief Yolanda Faro, today to discuss possible fine schedules. If they [metro police] do stop a vehicle there will not be a fine for the first time, but next time there definitely will be one, he said. The regulation also prohibits the transporting of other persons in the goods compartment of vehicles for reward, unless they are enclosed in a canopy, and are not seated near any goods or tools. Eastern Cape traffic spokesman Charles Bramwell said the new regulation was implemented nationwide, but added that the fines schedule and determination of admission of guilt structures still had to be finalised. The Automobile Association said the introduction of the regulation was a step in the right direction as it put the issue of scholar transport high on the road safety agenda. It said the new regulation placed a burden on parents whose only means of transporting their children to school was via these operators, who may, or may not, be in a position to follow the rules . Many parents simply don t have a choice but to use operators whose vehicles are in a poor state. For this reason, more reliable, accessible, safe public transport is essential, especially in rural areas, where bakkie transport is more common, the AA said. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share