U.S President Donald Trump Picture: Reuters/Mike Segar No politician in US history was treated so unfairly, president says of probe on possible Russia links President Donald Trump decried the appointment of a special counsel to lead the Russia probe as the single greatest witch-hunt in US history yesterday, hours after he said he looked forward to a thorough investigation. In the face of rising pressure from Capitol Hill, the US Justice Department named former FBI director Robert Mueller as special counsel to investigate alleged Russian interference in last year s US election and possible collusion between Trump s campaign and Moscow. Trump said on Wednesday night that a thorough investigation will confirm what we already know there was no collusion between my campaign and any foreign entity . In two Twitter posts yesterday, Trump made it clear he was unhappy with the latest development to roil his four-month-old administration. With all of the illegal acts that took place in the Clinton campaign &amp; Obama Administration, there was never a special councel appointed! Trump wrote, misspelling the word counsel as he referred to former President Barack Obama and former presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. This is the single greatest witchhunt of a politician in American history! The comments mirrored a speech by Trump on Wednesday, before Mueller s appointment was announced, in which he said no politician in history had been treated worse or more unfairly. The decision to move to an independent probe came a week after Trump abruptly fired FBI director James Comey, sparking a political firestorm as the agency was in the midst of an investigation into the Russia matter. Trump cited displeasure with the Russia probe as a factor in dismissing Comey. This week, news reports alleged that Trump had previously tried to pressure Comey into backing off inquiries into former national security adviser Michael Flynn. The reports, based on a memo Comey wrote after their conversation, fuelled allegations by Democrats that the Republican president may have been trying to obstruct the investigation. Flynn s contacts with Russians during the presidential campaign, as well as his work for the Turkish government, are under investigation. Russia has denied US intelligence agencies conclusion that it interfered in the election campaign to try to tilt the vote in Trump s favour. Trump has long bristled at the notion that Russia played any role in his November election victory, and has denied any collusion between his campaign and Moscow. US stocks fell on Wednesday as the controversy cast a cloud over prospects for Trump and the congressional Republicans policy agenda for issues such as tax reform. The appointment of a special counsel to take over the Russia probe was widely praised by Democrats and Trump s fellow Republicans. Republican representative Charlie Dent said there was no question the Russians had meddled in the election. The goal of the special counsel probe, he said, was to determine whether there was collusion between Trump associates and Russia to do so. I believe that s why we re having this investigation to find out if in fact there was collusion, Dent said. I hope there wasn t any, but if there was there are going to be very serious consequences. Democratic senator Dick Durbin said he had confidence that Mueller would follow the facts where they led. This won t be a witch-hunt, he said. Durbin said Trump s actions including the decision to fire Comey and his incessant provocative posts on Twitter had done more harm than any enemy, real or perceived, could. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share