Juanita Smit Claims made by the finalists of the Miss PE event are false and they are just disgruntled because they failed to win the competition. This is according to RoleModels Foundation spokeswoman and event organiser Juanita Smit. There is no doubt the Miss PE event was a great event. Most of the spectators not related to the couple of disgruntled finalists that did not place, will attest to this, Smit said. Some of the questions raised by the finalists are whether all of the money raised throughout the pageant for a Malabar creche was handed over by The RoleModels Foundation. When questioned what the money collected by the finalists was used for at the creche, Smit said the proceeds actually went towards maintaining an office hub in Port Elizabeth which requires telephone, internet and printing costs. But she said that the Imfundo Educare in Malabar was part of the RoleModels Foundation and it was one of three school projects the foundation operated countrywide. The other two are in Diepsloot, Gauteng and Worcester, Western Cape. The money from the events goes towards the national foundation which is a registered NPO, and it ensures that these schools are built. The foundation runs the schools and sustains the schools, she said. Smit said she could not provide information on how much money was made by each event or the recent Miss PE event as she did not manage the financial side of the foundation. When Weekend Post requested the information from Smit s husband and RoleModels Foundation chief executive Alwyn Smit, he said: As a non-profit organisation we are happy to supply you with any and all information you require, but also view the trend of the questions as building up to a public execution of RoleModels Foundation. He then referred the newspaper to the foundation s attorney, Natascha Miller of Boshoff Njokweni Attorneys. Instead of answering the questions sent to the foundation, Miller threatened legal action against the reporter and newspaper. Meanwhile, Smit said: The events are the main vehicle to sustain the charity projects. She said that Imfundo did receive food sponsorships from SPAR and Woolworths and that caretaker Theo Jacobs and his wife were not paid but they received breakfast, lunch and supper. Smit described the competition and the other 40 events the RoleModels Foundation manages nationwide as philanthropic. This is why finalists are expected to pay towards entry fees, charity donations and secure prizes, gifts and other services to ensure the events are successful, according to Smit. Smit described both the Texas Rodeo and finale as lovely events . Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share