Chippa United coach Mbuyiselo Sambu File picture: Sydney Seshibedi / Gallo Images Chippa United caretaker coach Mbuyiselo Sambu will ring the changes to his team as he strives for the much-needed three points against Ajax Cape Town at the Sisa Dukashe Stadium tomorrow (3pm). Sambu, who took over the hot seat when Dan Malesela was placed on special leave by the club s management last week, will be looking for his first win against the Urban Warriors. This will be the 33-year-old s second league match in charge after their 2-1 loss to Soweto giants Orlando Pirates last weekend. The Port Elizabeth side find themselves in a relegation battle as they are only two points away from the danger zone. A win against Ajax could give Chippa the confidence they need ahead of their three remaining league games, which Sambu described as very tricky fixtures. Their task will be made even more difficult by the fact they are without most of their key players due to injury. They are also missing suspended captain Thamisanqa Sangweni and influential defender Justice Chabalala. Sambu, himself a former Chippa and Free State Stars defender, said his players were up for the challenge. The preparations have gone very well for us, he said. Although we have many injuries, we have the replacements. Our captain received a red card in our last league game. He is a good leader and as much as we would have loved to have him, the players that are available are aware of the situation. They will give everything to make sure the team does well. Their minds look sharp and they are responding to what we are trying to achieve in terms of this game. This match is very important to us. We really need to get out of the situation we are in. We are going to have a couple of changes to make sure that we get the results that we need. He said they had to do well against teams in the same position as them. Those are teams that you have to make sure that you do not go wrong against at all costs. Then you will have an edge in making sure you survive. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share