Silvan Dillier was in disbelief after bouncing back from a puncture to cap a 200km breakaway with the biggest win of his career in a thrilling Giro d Italia sixth stage yesterday. BMC s Dillier suffered a flat tyre in the opening metres of an undulating 217km ride from Reggio di Calabria to Terme Luigiane, the first stage of the 100th Giro edition held on the Italian mainland. But, with a stage win on his mind, the 26-year-old Swiss chased back on, fought to help a five-man breakaway escape the peloton and, in a thrilling duel with Jasper Stuyven, prevailed in the drive to an uphill finish line that proved slightly too steep for the Belgian. The stage started pretty badly for me, I had a flat tyre at kilometre zero, then I chased back and fought to get into the breakaway, Dillier said. To beat Jasper Stuyven in a sprint like this is crazy for me! It s the biggest victory so far for me. It s fantastic. Luxembourg s Bob Jungels retained the race leader s pink jersey after finishing eighth, 39 seconds behind the frontrunners, to maintain his six-second lead on Sky s Geraint Thomas. We were hoping the breakaway would go until the end so the [time] bonuses were gone, Jungels said. It meant plenty of stage-victory hopefuls were left disappointed after a routine day in the saddle turned into a desperate chase. Dillier, Stuyven, Trek teammate Mads Pedersen, Austrian Lukas Postlberger and Italian Simone Andreetta raced to a lead of nearly nine minutes at one stage. That was cut to 5 minutes with 100km to race but a lack of collaboration in the chase meant the frontrunners were still nearly three minutes in front 10km from the finish. As they headed for a technical finish featuring a series of small climbs, descents and tight hairpin bends, Pedersen peeled off, no longer able to maintain the unrelenting pace. But Stuyven, who claimed his maiden Grand Tour stage win at the Vuelta a Espana last year, launched an attack nearly 6km out that proved fatal to Andreetta s bid to hand Italy their maiden win of the 100th edition. Stuyven and Dillier then dropped Postlberger in the final 300m but the Belgian was left agonisingly short as Dillier proved strongest to the line. At 224km, today s seventh stage from Castrovillari to Alberobello is the longest of the race. AFP Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share