If you weren t already in the know, afternoon tea is once again very much on-trend. For those who are lucky enough to find themselves in the Cape next weekend, why not consider taking mum out for a fun high tea on Mother s Day? Some may have had the la-di-da experience of visiting that pale pink beauty that is the Mount Nelson for high tea, since this is arguably Cape Town s most famous spot for this time-honoured practice. But there are other stunning spots out there too, so if you happen to be in or around the mother city for Mother s Day next Sunday, we suggest you visit any of these snazzy high tea venues from Chapman s Peak to Constantia Heights. 1. THE 12 APOSTLES High tea at the 12 Apostles Nestled below Table Mountain, this exquisite hotel boasts uninterrupted views of the Atlantic Ocean and really gives you the feeling of being out of the hubbub of the city. Enjoy a tea stand for two that includes traditional light bites, finger sandwiches, delicate pastries and freshly-baked scones, and you may even be treated to the pastry team s latest creative inventions which could be anything from orange-scented cupcakes dipped in chocolate ganache to red macaroons with chocolate filling and strawberry mousse. How much does it cost? R245 per person. Time: Monday to Sunday, 10am to 4pm. High tea buffet: Saturday 12 to 4pm; Sunday 2 to 4pm. Contact: 021437-9000, restaurants@12apostles.co.za Where: Victoria Road, Camps Bay. Cup and Cake high tea 2. CUP &amp; CAKE This quaint and adorably decorated establishment at Eden on the Bay ensures you get top-class pastries, tea, coffee and service no matter where you are on the Atlantic Seaboard. As you step into the cosy caf expect to feel as if you are in a chic yet rustic country kitchen with the walls packed with design whichever way you look. Although no formal high tea is currently on the menu, the lit-up glass counters are teeming with Italian cannolis with fresh ricotta, custard and coconut cake, lemon meringue as well as the popular Oreo, cupcake and Zoo biscuit milkshakes. The teapot collection is very much like Cup &amp; Cake one of a kind. Ordering tea really feels like you have been transported to a manor in the picturesque countryside. Once you are done with your tea, take a stroll along Eden on the Bay s breathtaking promenade as the waves and sea air roll towards you. &nbsp; The One and Only high tea table 3. THE ONE &amp; ONLY As soon as you enter The One &amp; Only it becomes it s clear they have their own particular way of doing things. Afternoon teas are usually organised in pairings. What does this mean? In partnership with Truth Coffee the O&amp;O in Cape Town has designed a pairing menu to match specific pastries with specific brews. This highlights the unique flavours of both the pastry and tea. Expect traditional favourites like black forest cake, lemon meringue, koeksisters, as well as caramel and gold leaf clairs, tea loaf, macaroons, tea sandwiches and buttermilk scones. You can even dunk strawberries into a variety of melted Lindt chocolate fondues. Look out for their latest themed afternoon teas as they are constantly changing and evolving. How much does it cost? Weekend morning tea is R195 and afternoon tea is R295. Time: Monday to Sunday between 2.30 and 5.30pm. Contact: (021) 431-4511, restaurant. reservations@oneandonlycapetown.com Where: One&amp;Only, Dock Road, V&amp;A Waterfront. The Mount Nelson&#8217;s high tea is legendary 4. BELMOND MOUNT NELSON The Belmond Mount Nelson is the granddaddy of all high tea venues in the Cape and is known to both locals and international tourists. Guests are transported back into the grandeur of yesteryear as they delight in a high tea either in the lounge or on garden-facing terrace seating. The iconic, pale pink hotel lies comfortably behind the famous white pillars that people have come to know. As you drive in, expect a secluded oasis of elegance with twinkling chandeliers, inlaid ceilings, opulent wingback chairs and exquisite antique furniture. Sample a wide selection of exotic tea blends and even the hotel s own blend which is made using rose petals from the established garden. Even the teapots are a delight as you watch the sweet-smelling tea leaves brew through the clear glass. How much does it cost? R295 per person (potential surcharge on special-event days). Time: Monday to Sunday between 1.30 and 3.30pm and 3.30 and 5.30pm. Contact: (021) 483-1000, reservations.mnh@belmond.com Where: 76 Orange Street, Gardens. The Cellars-Hohenhort&#8217;s high tea 5. LOW-CARB HIGH TEA AT THE CELLARS-HOHENORT For a high tea that won t have you busting out of your slacks, try the Low Carb High Tea at the Cellars-Hohenort in Constantia. This traditional English afternoon tea with a twist has received the nod from Banting guru Professor Tim Noakes and still remains indulgent while using healthier substitutes. Expect bite-size dark chocolate and beetroot cupcakes, crispy prawn Vietnamese rice-paper rolls with dipping sauce, fresh fruit sugar-free pavlovas, red pepper and goat s cheese tartlets and more. Don t leave without a stroll through the beautiful gardens and avenue of centuries-old camphor trees. An a la carte high tea is also available daily between 11am and 5pm. How much does it cost? R195 per person. Time: Monday to Sunday between 3 and 5pm (Low Carb High Tea). Contact: (021) 794-2137, gm@cellars-hohenort.co.za Where: 93 Brommersvlei Road, Constantia Heights. 6. LADY ANN AFTERNOON TEA AT THE VINEYARD HOTEL For a serene and relaxed setting, visit The Vineyard Hotel for the Lady Ann afternoon tea while you drink in the views of Table Mountain. Make your way down the path to the side of the Liesbeek River for a truly authentic experience. The tea includes an assortment of miniature cakes, pastries, sandwiches and savoury bites. After tea, take a stroll around the rolling lawns where the resident tortoises are often seen. How much does it cost? R165 per person. Time: Monday to Sunday between 3.30 and 5.30pm. Contact: (021) 657-4500, eat@vineyard.co.za Where: Colinton Road (off Protea Road), Newlands. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share