Social development MEC Nancy Sihlwayi addresses ANCWL members outside the Port Elizabeth Magistrate&#8217;s Court where Pastor Timothy Omotoso is appearing Picture: Annelisa Swana Controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso was in South Africa illegally. This was the testimony of Home Affairs immigration officer Ivan Klaasen in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate s Court where Omotoso s bail hearing resumed on Friday morning. Klaasen told the court one of Omotoso s visas, issued by an ex home affairs official in Port Elizabeth, was fraudulent. This made Omotoso eligible for deportation. The controversial televangelist, who faces 22 charges related to contravening the Sexual Offences Act with two definite charges of rape contained in the charge sheet, was arrested at the Port Elizabeth International Airport last month. ANC members filled the front row, usually reserved for journalists, in the packed court. Those in the court were told to switch off all phones once proceedings started. Meanwhile two Eastern Cape MECs were among those at the court on Friday morning opposing bail. Social development MEC Nancy Sihlwayi addressed ANCWL members outside during a brief court adjournment. Parliament has sent us here. Our department stands with the victims. This is traumatic for these children. We are here to protect our children, she said. Government has to intervene because this affects our children. We are stocked that there are churches like this. We will follow the correct procedures as government on this matter. Sihlwayi was accompanied by arts and culture MEC Pemmy Majodina. As with previous court appearances, there were two crowds outside the court those in support of and opposed to Omotoso. Members of Omotoso s Jesus Dominion International church which has a branch across the road from the court called for his release on bail. Those opposed to him, including ANCWL members, chanted no bail . &nbsp; #ANCWL &#8220;This dog Omotoso is undermining us raping our children&#8221; / Church members &#8220;Set him free we are here to fetch him&#8221; @anne_swana pic.twitter.com/XOzSo4RcZp HeraldLIVE (@HeraldPE) May 12, 2017 &nbsp; Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share