Stranger s body put in coffin instead of murdered son s A Uitenhage family unwittingly buried, and mourned the death of, a stranger after the Gauteng Department of Health released the wrong corpse for burial in February and they are still waiting for their son s body to be returned home. The devastated Mododana family desperately want to bury their murdered son but are battling to get his body from a Roodepoort morgue. Monde Mododana, 29, a former Walter Sisulu University student, travelled to Mogale City earlier this year looking for a job. But on February 7 tragedy struck and he was stabbed to death en route to a job interview. Although his father, Themba Sethenu, had travelled the 1 000km to identify his son and bring him home, he was instead sent home with the body of an unknown man. That body had been scheduled for a pauper s burial and had inadvertently been placed in the coffin. The family claim the department made them aware of the mix-up only a few hours after the burial. I thought since they had made that mistake they would speed up the process, but we are still waiting, Sethenu said. The family spent more than R15 000, donated by relatives and the community, on burying the unknown man. They say they now have no money available to retrieve Monde s body from the funeral home where it is being kept. The family say that last month the Gauteng Department of Health promised transportation for the body, a coffin and grave, and two minibuses so a second funeral could be planned but nothing has happened yet. We know that these things do happen at times, but none of the officials have treated our family s matter with urgency, Sethenu said. If we had money, we would have gone to Johannesburg again, but his mother is a part-time domestic worker and I am unemployed. Monde was our hope out of poverty. The family are devastated by all this and want closure. People have been asking about the second funeral but I can t give them answers. Gauteng Health Department spokesman Prince Hamnca said procurement processes had to be followed to obtain the necessary approval to appoint an undertaker to transport and bury the body. He said the department would cover all the costs of the funeral. Hamnca did not explain how the mistake had been made. The unclaimed body was [meant to have] a pauper s burial and this has been recorded, he said . There is no need to [transport] this body back to Johannesburg as the grave number of the pauper burial will be recorded in a Forensic Pathology Services file for future reference should there be a legal requirement to exhume the body. Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share